Sukhumi	 Republic of Abkhazia	Asia/Europe	De facto independent state recognized by Russia, Nauru, Nicaragua, Venezuela, and Syria. Claimed in whole by Georgia as the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia.
Kabul	 Afghanistan	Asia	
Episkopi Cantonment	 Akrotiri and Dhekelia	Asia	British Overseas Territory.
Mariehamn	 Åland	Europe	Autonomous region of Finland.
Tirana	 Albania	Europe	
Algiers	 Algeria	Africa	
Pago Pago	 American Samoa	Oceania	Territory of the United States.
Andorra la Vella	 Andorra	Europe	
Luanda	 Angola	Africa	
The Valley	 Anguilla	North America	British Overseas Territory.
St. John's	 Antigua and Barbuda	North America	
Buenos Aires	 Argentina	South America
Yerevan	 Armenia	Asia/Europe	
Stepanakert	Artsakh	Asia/Europe	Originally 𝘤𝘭𝘢𝘪𝘮𝘦𝘥 by Azerbaijan. The territory was conflicted between Armenia and Azerbaijan after the fall of Soviet Union, Nowadays the territory isn't independent.
Oranjestad	Aruba	South America	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Georgetown	Ascension Island	Africa	Part of the British Overseas Territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.
Canberra	 Australia	Oceania	Planned city built to mitigate the rivalry between Melbourne (de facto capital at the time) and Sydney (economic capital and most populous city), both of which were put forward as potential capitals in the Australasia Federation Conventions of the 1890s. Section 125 of the Constitution gives basic details about the location of the capital, size of the encompassing territory and so forth, while the Seat of Government Act 1908 specified its precise location.
Vienna	 Austria	Europe	
Baku	 Azerbaijan	Asia/Europe	
Nassau	 Bahamas	North America	
Manama	 Bahrain	Asia	
Dhaka	 Bangladesh	Asia	
Bridgetown	Barbados	North America	
Minsk	Belarus	 Europe
Brussels	 Belgium	Europe	Brussels also serves as de facto capital of the European Union.[1]
Belmopan	 Belize	North America	Belize City was the capital of Belize's predecessor, British Honduras.
Cotonou (de facto)	 Benin	Africa	
Porto-Novo (official)	 Benin	Africa	
Hamilton	 Bermuda	North America	British Overseas Territory.
Thimphu	 Bhutan	Asia	
La Paz (administrative)	 Bolivia	South America	La Paz is the highest administrative capital (3,650 m) in the world, higher than Quito.[5]
Sucre (constitutional)	 Bolivia	South America	
Sarajevo	 Bosnia and Herzegovina	Europe	
Gaborone	 Botswana	Africa	
Brasília	 Brazil	South America	Rio de Janeiro was the capital until 1960. See also: Capitals of Brazil.
Rothera	 British Antarctic Territory	Antarctica	British Overseas Territory
London (administration)	 British Indian Ocean Territory	Asia	British Overseas Territory. Officially, the British Indian Ocean Territory is administered from London,[7] though some consider the capital to be Diego Garcia.[8]
Diego Garcia (de facto)	 British Indian Ocean Territory	Asia	British Overseas Territory. Officially, the British Indian Ocean Territory is administered from London,[7] though some consider the capital to be Diego Garcia.[8]
Road Town	 British Virgin Islands	North America	British Overseas Territory.
Bandar Seri Begawan	 Brunei	Asia	
Sofia	 Bulgaria	Europe	
Ouagadougou	 Burkina Faso	Africa	
Gitega (de jure)	 Burundi	Africa	Bujumbura was the capital from 1962 to 2018.
Bujumbura (de facto)	 Burundi	Africa	Bujumbura was the capital from 1962 to 2018.
Phnom Penh	 Cambodia	Asia	
Yaoundé	 Cameroon	Africa	
Ottawa	 Canada	North America	
Praia	 Cape Verde	Africa	
George Town	 Cayman Islands	North America	British Overseas Territory.
Bangui	 Central African Republic	Africa	
N'Djamena	 Chad	Africa	
Santiago	 Chile	South America	The National Congress of Chile is located in Valparaíso.
Beijing	 China	Asia	See also: Historical capitals of China.
Flying Fish Cove	Christmas Island	Asia	External territory of Australia.
West Island	 Cocos (Keeling) Islands	Asia	External territory of Australia.
Bogotá	 Colombia	South America	
Moroni	 Comoros	Africa	
Brazzaville	 Republic of the Congo	Africa	
Avarua	 Cook Islands	Oceania	Self-governing in free association with New Zealand. The capital is sometimes incorrectly stated as Rarotonga, the island on which Avarua is located.
San José	 Costa Rica	North America	
Zagreb	 Croatia	Europe	
Havana	 Cuba	North America	
Willemstad	Curaçao	South America	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Nicosia	 Cyprus	Asia	Nicosia is a divided capital, split between Cyprus, which claims the whole city, and the internationally unrecognized breakaway state of Northern Cyprus.
Prague	 Czech Republic	Europe	The Supreme Court of the Czech Republic is located in Brno.[13]
Kinshasa	 Democratic Republic of the Congo	Africa	
Copenhagen	 Denmark	Europe	
Djibouti City	 Djibouti	Africa	
Roseau	 Dominica	North America	
Santo Domingo	 Dominican Republic	North America	
Dili	 East Timor	Asia	
Quito	 Ecuador	South America	Highest official capital (2,850 m).[5]
Cairo	 Egypt	Africa	A new capital is being built at the New Administrative Capital. It might be named Egypt. See also: List of historical capitals of Egypt.
San Salvador	 El Salvador	North America	
Ciudad de la Paz	 Equatorial Guinea	Africa	Ciudad de la Paz is currently under construction and will become the new capital when complete.[9]
Asmara	 Eritrea	Africa	
Tallinn	 Estonia	Europe	
Lobamba (royal and legislative)	 Eswatini	Africa	
Mbabane (administrative)	 Eswatini	Africa	
Addis Ababa	 Ethiopia	Africa	
Brussels	 European Union (de facto)	Europe	Brussels also serves as de facto capital of the European Union.[1]
Stanley	 Falkland Islands	South America	British Overseas Territory.
Tórshavn	 Faroe Islands	Europe	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of Denmark.
Suva	 Fiji	Oceania	
Helsinki	 Finland	Europe	
Paris	 France	Europe	See also: List of Capitals of France.
Papeete	 French Polynesia	Oceania	Overseas collectivity of France.
Libreville	 Gabon	Africa	
Banjul	 Gambia	Africa	
Tbilisi	 Georgia (country)	Asia/Europe	From 2012 to 2018, Kutaisi served as Georgia's legislative capital. Additionally, Mtskheta is sometimes called an "ancient capital" of Georgia.[14][15]
Berlin	 Germany	Europe	Bonn was the capital of West Germany and remained the seat of government for reunified Germany until 1999, and is still the primary seat of six ministries. See also Capital of Germany.
Accra	 Ghana	Africa	
Gibraltar	 Gibraltar	Europe	British Overseas Territory and city-state.
Athens	 Greece	Europe	
Nuuk	 Greenland	North America	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of Denmark.
St. George's	 Grenada	North America	
Hagåtña	 Guam	Oceania	Territory of the United States.
Guatemala City	 Guatemala	North America	
St. Peter Port	 Guernsey	Europe	British Crown Dependency.
Conakry	 Guinea	Africa	
Bissau	 Guinea-Bissau	Africa	
Georgetown	 Guyana	South America	
Port-au-Prince	 Haiti	North America	
Tegucigalpa	 Honduras	North America	Comayagüela is declared in the Honduran Constitution as co-official capital with Tegucigalpa.[16] The cities have since merged into a single urban area.
Comayagüela	 Honduras	North America	Comayagüela is declared in the Honduran Constitution as co-official capital with Tegucigalpa.[16] The cities have since merged into a single urban area.
Budapest	 Hungary	Europe	See also: List of historical capitals of Hungary.
Reykjavík	 Iceland	Europe	
New Delhi	 India	Asia	Calcutta was the capital of India until 1911 during the British Raj.
Jakarta (de facto)	 Indonesia	Asia	The capital will soon be moved to Nusantara on Borneo. See also: Capital of Indonesia.
Nusantara	 Indonesia	Asia	
Tehran	 Iran	Asia	
Baghdad	 Iraq	Asia	
Dublin	 Ireland	Europe	
Douglas	 Isle of Man	Europe	British Crown Dependency.
Jerusalem	 Israel	Asia	The Jerusalem Law states that "Jerusalem, complete and united, is the capital of Israel" and the city serves as the seat of the Israeli government and its institutions. United Nations Security Council Resolution 478 declared the Jerusalem Law "null and void" and called on member states to withdraw their diplomatic missions from Jerusalem. Nearly all countries currently have their embassies in and around Tel Aviv. Defying the UN,[2] the United States recognized Jerusalem as the capital and moved its embassy there in May 2018.[3] Many countries officially adhere to the proposal that Jerusalem should have international status, as called for in the 1947 Partition Plan.[4]
Rome	 Italy	Europe	
Abidjan (former capital; still hosts some government offices)	 Côte d'Ivoire	Africa	Abidjan is the largest city in Ivory Coast and is officially designated as the economic capital.
Yamoussoukro (de jure)	 Côte d'Ivoire	Africa	Abidjan is the largest city in Ivory Coast and is officially designated as the economic capital.
Kingston	 Jamaica	North America	
Tokyo	 Japan	Asia	See also: Capital of Japan.
St. Helier	 Jersey	Europe	British Crown Dependency.
Amman	 Jordan	Asia	
Astana	 Kazakhstan	Asia	Astana was named Nur-Sultan from 2019 to 2022. Almaty was the capital of Kazakhstan from 1991 to 1997 and its predecessor the Kazakh SSR from 1929 to 1991.
Nairobi	 Kenya	Africa	
South Tarawa	 Kiribati	Oceania	South Tarawa is a settlement on the atoll of Tarawa.
Pristina	 Kosovo	Europe	De facto independent state that is recognized by 114 UN member states, Taiwan, the Cook Islands and Niue. Claimed in whole by Serbia as part of its Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo has de facto control over most of the territory, with limited control in North Kosovo.
Kuwait City	 Kuwait	Asia	
Bishkek	 Kyrgyzstan	Asia	
Vientiane	 Laos	Asia	
Riga	 Latvia	Europe	
Beirut	 Lebanon	Asia	
Maseru	 Lesotho	Africa	
Monrovia	 Liberia	Africa	
Tripoli	 Libya	Africa	
Vaduz	 Liechtenstein	Europe	
Vilnius	 Lithuania	Europe	
Luxembourg	 Luxembourg	Europe	
Antananarivo	 Madagascar	Africa	
Lilongwe	 Malawi	Africa	
Kuala Lumpur (de jure, legislative and royal)	 Malaysia	Asia	
Putrajaya (administrative and judicial)	 Malaysia	Asia	
Malé	 Maldives	Asia	
Bamako	 Mali	Africa	
Valletta	 Malta	Europe	
Majuro	 Marshall Islands	Oceania	Self-governing in free association with the United States. The seat of government is at Delap-Uliga-Djarrit, a settlement on the atoll of Majuro.
Nouakchott	 Mauritania	Africa	
Port Louis	 Mauritius	Africa	
Mexico City	 Mexico	North America	
Palikir	 Federated States of Micronesia	Oceania	Self-governing in free association with the United States. Kolonia is the former capital and Australia, China, Japan and the United States retain embassies there.
Chișinău	 Moldova	Europe	
Monaco	 Monaco	Europe	City-state. Monaco does not have a capital designated in its constitution; however, the Commune of Monaco, the country's only commune, is coterminous with the nation, making it the de facto capital.[10][11]
Ulaanbaatar	 Mongolia	Asia	
Podgorica	 Montenegro	Europe	Cetinje has been designated the "Old Royal Capital" and is the present seat of the President.
Brades (de facto)	 Montserrat	North America	British Overseas Territory. Plymouth was abandoned after the Soufrière Hills volcano erupted in 1997. Since then, government offices have been moved to Brades, which is in northwestern Montserrat. A new capital, Little Bay, is currently under construction.
Plymouth (de jure)	 Montserrat	North America	British Overseas Territory. Plymouth was abandoned after the Soufrière Hills volcano erupted in 1997. Since then, government offices have been moved to Brades, which is in northwestern Montserrat. A new capital, Little Bay, is currently under construction.
Rabat	 Morocco	Africa	
Maputo	 Mozambique	Africa	
Naypyidaw	 Myanmar	Asia	Yangon was the capital until 2006.[12] See also: List of capitals of Myanmar.
Windhoek	 Namibia	Africa	
Yaren (de facto)	 Nauru	Oceania	Nauru has no official capital; however, the government offices are in Yaren.
Kathmandu	 Nepal	Asia	
Amsterdam (official)	 Netherlands	Europe	The Dutch government is situated in The Hague, which also hosts the monarch, government ministries, judiciary and diplomatic missions. See also Capital of the Netherlands.
The Hague (de facto)	 Netherlands	Europe	The Dutch government is situated in The Hague, which also hosts the monarch, government ministries, judiciary and diplomatic missions. See also Capital of the Netherlands.
Nouméa	 New Caledonia	Oceania	Overseas territory of France.
Wellington	 New Zealand	Oceania	Since 1865. Wellington is New Zealand's third capital. See also: Capital of New Zealand.
Managua	 Nicaragua	North America	
Niamey	 Niger	Africa	
Abuja	 Nigeria	Africa	Lagos was the capital from 1914 to 1991.
Alofi	 Niue	Oceania	Self-governing in free association with New Zealand. Government offices are spread across both Alofi North and Alofi South.
Kingston	 Norfolk Island	Oceania	External territory of Australia.
Pyongyang	 North Korea	Asia	
Skopje	 North Macedonia	Europe	
Nicosia	 Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus	Asia	Nicosia is a divided capital, split between Cyprus, which claims the whole city, and the internationally unrecognized breakaway state of Northern Cyprus.
Saipan	 Northern Mariana Islands	Oceania	Territory of the United States. The seat of government is at Capitol Hill, a settlement on the island of Saipan.
Oslo	 Norway	Europe	See also: List of historical capitals of Norway.
Muscat	 Oman	Asia	
Islamabad	 Pakistan	Asia	Karachi served as the first capital of Pakistan from 1948. A planned capital, Islamabad, was then designated, and in 1958, as an interim measure, the capital was shifted to Rawalpindi, near to the future capital. Islamabad became capital in 1967 when its construction was completed.
Ngerulmud	 Palau	Oceania	Self-governing in free association with the United States. Koror City was the capital until 2006.
Jerusalem	 Palestine	Asia	The Jerusalem Law states that "Jerusalem, complete and united, is the capital of Israel" and the city serves as the seat of the Israeli government and its institutions. United Nations Security Council Resolution 478 declared the Jerusalem Law "null and void" and called on member states to withdraw their diplomatic missions from Jerusalem. Nearly all countries currently have their embassies in and around Tel Aviv. Defying the UN,[2] the United States recognized Jerusalem as the capital and moved its embassy there in May 2018.[3] Many countries officially adhere to the proposal that Jerusalem should have international status, as called for in the 1947 Partition Plan.[4]
Ramallah (de facto)	 Palestine	Asia	The Jerusalem Law states that "Jerusalem, complete and united, is the capital of Israel" and the city serves as the seat of the Israeli government and its institutions. United Nations Security Council Resolution 478 declared the Jerusalem Law "null and void" and called on member states to withdraw their diplomatic missions from Jerusalem. Nearly all countries currently have their embassies in and around Tel Aviv. Defying the UN,[2] the United States recognized Jerusalem as the capital and moved its embassy there in May 2018.[3] Many countries officially adhere to the proposal that Jerusalem should have international status, as called for in the 1947 Partition Plan.[4]
Panama City	 Panama	North America	
Port Moresby	 Papua New Guinea	Oceania	
Asunción	 Paraguay	South America	
Lima	 Peru	South America	Cusco is declared the "historical capital" (Spanish: capital histórica), by Article 49 of the Peruvian Constitution, a merely symbolic statement. Arequipa is deemed the "legal capital" as it is the seat of the Constitutional Court.
Manila	 Philippines	Asia	
Adamstown	 Pitcairn Islands	Oceania	British Overseas Territory.
Warsaw	 Poland	Europe	Former capitals listed in Template:Historical capitals of Poland.
Lisbon	 Portugal	Europe	
San Juan	 Puerto Rico	North America	Territory of the United States.
Doha	 Qatar	Asia	
Bucharest	 Romania	Europe	
Moscow	 Russia	Europe	
Kigali	 Rwanda	Africa	
Gustavia	 Saint Barthélemy	North America	Overseas collectivity of France.
Jamestown	 Saint Helena	Africa	Part of the British Overseas Territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.
Basseterre	 Saint Kitts and Nevis	North America	
Castries	 Saint Lucia	North America	
Marigot	 Saint Martin	North America	Overseas collectivity of France.
St. Pierre	 Saint Pierre and Miquelon	North America	Overseas collectivity of France.
Kingstown	 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines	North America	
Apia	 Samoa	Oceania	
San Marino	 San Marino	Europe	
São Tomé	São Tomé and Príncipe	Africa	
Riyadh	 Saudi Arabia	Asia	
Dakar	 Senegal	Africa	
Belgrade	 Serbia	Europe	
Victoria	 Seychelles	Africa	
Freetown	 Sierra Leone	Africa	
Singapore	 Singapore	Asia	City-state.
Philipsburg	 Sint Maarten	North America	Self-governing country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
Bratislava	 Slovakia	Europe	
Ljubljana	 Slovenia	Europe	
Honiara	 Solomon Islands	Oceania	Honiara is a settlement on the island of Guadalcanal.
Mogadishu	 Somalia	Africa	
Hargeisa	 Somaliland	Africa	De facto independent state, deemed by the UN to be de jure part of Somalia.
Bloemfontein (judicial)	 South Africa	Africa	
Cape Town (legislative)	 South Africa	Africa	
Pretoria (executive)	 South Africa	Africa	
King Edward Point	 South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands	Antarctica	British Overseas Territory.
Seoul	 South Korea	Asia	On 2 July 2012, some government functions moved to Sejong City, which became the de facto administrative capital.
Tskhinvali	 South Ossetia	Asia/Europe	De facto independent state recognized by Russia, Nauru, Nicaragua, Venezuela, and Syria. Claimed in whole by Georgia as the Provisional Administration of South Ossetia.
Juba	 South Sudan	Africa	
Madrid	 Spain	Europe	
Colombo (executive, judicial)	 Sri Lanka	Asia	Until 1982, the capital was Colombo, where many governmental institutions remain; it is still designated as the commercial capital of Sri Lanka. See also: Capital of Sri Lanka.
Sri Jayawardenepura Kotte (official)	 Sri Lanka	Asia	Also known as Kotte, the city is a suburb of Colombo.
Khartoum	 Sudan	Africa	
Paramaribo	 Suriname	South America	
Stockholm	 Sweden	Europe	
Bern (de facto)	 Switzerland	Europe	
Damascus	 Syria	Asia	
Taipei	 Taiwan	Asia	Officially the Republic of China, it has been competing for recognition with the People's Republic of China as the sole Chinese government since 1949. Taiwan controls the island of Taiwan and the associated islands Quemoy, Matsu, the Pratas, and part of the Spratly Islands.[Note 1] Its territory is claimed in whole by the People's Republic of China.[Note 2] The Republic of China participates in the World Health Organization and a number of non-UN international organizations such as the World Trade Organization, the International Olympic Committee and others under a variety of pseudonyms, most commonly Chinese Taipei.
Dushanbe	 Tajikistan	Asia	
Dodoma	 Tanzania	Africa	Dar es Salaam, the former capital and largest city, still hosts some government ministries, the judiciary, and diplomatic missions.
Bangkok	 Thailand	Asia	
Lomé	 Togo	Africa	
Atafu (atoll administration)	 Tokelau	Oceania	Most populous city and smallest atoll. New Zealand owns Tokelau.
Nukunonu (atoll administration)	 Tokelau	Oceania	Largest atoll. the population of people living there is 531.
Fakaofo (atoll administration)	 Tokelau	Oceania	Most populous city in this atoll is Fale, Tokelau
Nukuʻalofa	 Tonga	Oceania	
Tiraspol	 Transnistria	Europe	De facto independent state, not recognized by any UN member, only by Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Claimed in whole by Moldova as the autonomous territorial unit of Administrative-Territorial Units of the Left Bank of the Dniester
Port of Spain	 Trinidad and Tobago	South America	
Edinburgh of the Seven Seas	 Tristan da Cunha	Africa	Part of the British Overseas Territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.
Tunis	 Tunisia	Africa	
Ankara	 Turkey	Asia	Ankara became capital of the newly-formed Republic of Turkey in 1923, after the Turkish War of Independence. The capital of Turkey's predecessor, the Ottoman Empire, was Constantinople.
Ashgabat	 Turkmenistan	Asia	
Cockburn Town	 Turks and Caicos Islands	North America	British Overseas Territory.
Funafuti	 Tuvalu	Oceania	
Kampala	 Uganda	Africa	
Kyiv	 Ukraine	Europe	
Abu Dhabi	 United Arab Emirates	Asia	
London	 United Kingdom	Europe	Prior to the Acts of Union in 1707, London was the capital of England only; Edinburgh was the capital of the Kingdom of Scotland. The United Kingdom also includes the subdivisions of  England (capital London),  Scotland (capital Edinburgh),  Wales (capital Cardiff),  Northern Ireland (capital Belfast).
Washington, D.C.	 United States	North America	The capital of the United States has moved several times. See also: National capitals of the United States.
Charlotte Amalie	 United States Virgin Islands	North America	Territory of the United States.
Montevideo	 Uruguay	South America	
Tashkent	 Uzbekistan	Asia	
Port Vila	 Vanuatu	Oceania	
Vatican City	 Vatican City	Europe	City-state.
Caracas	 Venezuela	South America	
Hanoi	 Vietnam	Asia	See also: List of historical capitals of Vietnam.
Mata Utu	 Wallis and Futuna	Oceania	Overseas collectivity of France.
Laayoune (declared)	 Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic	Africa	The Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR), recognized by 84 UN member states and South Ossetia, claims the mostly Moroccan-controlled Western Sahara. Moroccan-controlled territory includes Laayoune and Morocco claims all Sahrawi-controlled territory. Tifariti is the current temporary capital of the SADR (previously Bir Lehlou). Some government and military buildings reside in exile in Tindouf, Algeria.[6] See also: Politics of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.
Tifariti (de facto)	 Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic	Africa	The Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (SADR), recognized by 84 UN member states and South Ossetia, claims the mostly Moroccan-controlled Western Sahara. Moroccan-controlled territory includes Laayoune and Morocco claims all Sahrawi-controlled territory. Tifariti is the current temporary capital of the SADR (previously Bir Lehlou). Some government and military buildings reside in exile in Tindouf, Algeria.[6] See also: Politics of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.
Aden (de facto, temporary)	 Yemen	Asia	Yemen is in a state of civil war, and Sanaa has been occupied by Houthi rebels since September 2014. Aden, the former capital of South Yemen, is Yemen's acting capital.
Sanaa (de jure)	 Yemen	Asia	Yemen is in a state of civil war, and Sanaa has been occupied by Houthi rebels since September 2014. Aden, the former capital of South Yemen, is Yemen's acting capital.
Lusaka	 Zambia	Africa	
Harare	 Zimbabwe	Africa

Ponta Delgada (executive)	 Azores	 Europe
Angra do Heroísmo (judicial)	 Azores	 Europe
Horta (legislative)	 Azores	 Europe

Cotabato City (de facto)	Bangsamoro	 Asia
Parang, Maguindanao del Norte (de jure)	 Bangsamoro	 Asia
Santa Cruz de Tenerife (executive and legislative)	 Canary Islands	 Africa
Las Palmas de Gran Canaria (executive and judicial)	 Canary Islands	 Africa
San Juan Bautista	Juan Fernández Islands	South America

Funchai	Madeira	Africa
Saint-Denis	Réunion	Africa
