The Nobel Prize in Physics 2025
John Clarke, Michel H. Devoret and John M. Martinis
“for the discovery of macroscopic quantum mechanical tunnelling and energy quantisation in an electric circuit”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2025
Susumu Kitagawa, Richard Robson and Omar M. Yaghi
“for the development of metal–organic frameworks”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2025
Mary E. Brunkow, Fred Ramsdell and Shimon Sakaguchi
“for their discoveries concerning peripheral immune tolerance”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2025
László Krasznahorkai
“for his compelling and visionary oeuvre that, in the midst of apocalyptic terror, reaffirms the power of art”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2025
Maria Corina Machado
“for her tireless work promoting democratic rights for the people of Venezuela and for her struggle to achieve a just and peaceful transition from dictatorship to democracy”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2025
Joel Mokyr
“for having explained innovation-driven economic growth and for having identified the prerequisites for sustained growth through technological progress”
Philippe Aghion and Peter Howitt
“for the theory of sustained growth through creative destruction”
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2024
John J. Hopfield and Geoffrey Hinton
“for foundational discoveries and inventions that enable machine learning with artificial neural networks”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2024
David Baker
“for computational protein design”
Demis Hassabis and John Jumper
“for protein structure prediction”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2024
Victor Ambros and Gary Ruvkun
“for the discovery of microRNA and its role in post-transcriptional gene regulation”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2024
Han Kang
“for her intense poetic prose that confronts historical traumas and exposes the fragility of human life”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2024
Nihon Hidankyo
“for its efforts to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons and for demonstrating through witness testimony that nuclear weapons must never be used again”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2024
Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson and James A. Robinson
“for studies of how institutions are formed and affect prosperity”
2023
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2023
Pierre Agostini, Ferenc Krausz and Anne L’Huillier
“for experimental methods that generate attosecond pulses of light for the study of electron dynamics in matter”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2023
Moungi Bawendi, Louis Brus and Aleksey Yekimov
“for the discovery and synthesis of quantum dots”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2023
Katalin Karikó and Drew Weissman
“for their discoveries concerning nucleoside base modifications that enabled the development of effective mRNA vaccines against COVID-19”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2023
Jon Fosse
“for his innovative plays and prose which give voice to the unsayable”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2023
Narges Mohammadi
“for her fight against the oppression of women in Iran and her fight to promote human rights and freedom for all”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2023
Claudia Goldin
“for having advanced our understanding of women’s labour market outcomes”
2022
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2022
Alain Aspect, John Clauser and Anton Zeilinger
“for experiments with entangled photons, establishing the violation of Bell inequalities and pioneering quantum information science”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2022
Carolyn Bertozzi, Morten Meldal and K. Barry Sharpless
“for the development of click chemistry and bioorthogonal chemistry”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2022
Svante Pääbo
“for his discoveries concerning the genomes of extinct hominins and human evolution”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2022
Annie Ernaux
“for the courage and clinical acuity with which she uncovers the roots, estrangements and collective restraints of personal memory”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2022
Ales Bialiatski, Memorial and Center for Civil Liberties
“The Peace Prize laureates represent civil society in their home countries. They have for many years promoted the right to criticise power and protect the fundamental rights of citizens. They have made an outstanding effort to document war crimes, human right abuses and the abuse of power. Together they demonstrate the significance of civil society for peace and democracy”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2022
Ben Bernanke, Douglas Diamond and Philip Dybvig
“for research on banks and financial crises”
2021
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2021
Syukuro Manabe and Klaus Hasselmann
“for groundbreaking contributions to our understanding of complex physical systems and for the physical modelling of Earth’s climate, quantifying variability and reliably predicting global warming”
Giorgio Parisi
“for the discovery of the interplay of disorder and fluctuations in physical systems from atomic to planetary scales”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2021
Benjamin List and David W.C. MacMillan
“for the development of asymmetric organocatalysis”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2021
David Julius and Ardem Patapoutian
“for their discoveries of receptors for temperature and touch”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2021
Abdulrazak Gurnah
“for his uncompromising and compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism and the fate of the refugee in the gulf between cultures and continents”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2021
Maria Ressa and Dmitry Muratov
“for their efforts to safeguard freedom of expression, which is a precondition for democracy and lasting peace”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2021
David Card
“for his empirical contributions to labour economics”
Joshua D. Angrist and Guido W. Imbens
“for their methodological contributions to the analysis of causal relationships”
2020
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2020
Roger Penrose
“for the discovery that black hole formation is a robust prediction of the general theory of relativity”
Reinhard Genzel and Andrea Ghez
“for the discovery of a supermassive compact object at the centre of our galaxy”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2020
Emmanuelle Charpentier and Jennifer A. Doudna
“for the development of a method for genome editing”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2020
Harvey J. Alter, Michael Houghton and Charles M. Rice
“for the discovery of Hepatitis C virus”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2020
Louise Glück
“for her unmistakable poetic voice that with austere beauty makes individual existence universal”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2020
World Food Programme
“for its efforts to combat hunger, for its contribution to bettering conditions for peace in conflict-affected areas and for acting as a driving force in efforts to prevent the use of hunger as a weapon of war and conflict”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2020
Paul R. Milgrom and Robert B. Wilson
“for improvements to auction theory and inventions of new auction formats”
2019
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2019
James Peebles
“for contributions to our understanding of the evolution of the universe and Earth’s place in the cosmos and for theoretical discoveries in physical cosmology”
Michel Mayor and Didier Queloz
“for the discovery of an exoplanet orbiting a solar-type star”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2019
John B. Goodenough, M. Stanley Whittingham and Akira Yoshino
“for the development of lithium-ion batteries”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2019
William G. Kaelin Jr, Sir Peter J. Ratcliffe and Gregg L. Semenza
“for their discoveries of how cells sense and adapt to oxygen availability”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2019
Peter Handke
“for an influential work that with linguistic ingenuity has explored the periphery and the specificity of human experience”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2019
Abiy Ahmed Ali
“for his efforts to achieve peace and international cooperation, and in particular for his decisive initiative to resolve the border conflict with neighbouring Eritrea”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2019
Abhijit Banerjee, Esther Duflo and Michael Kremer
“for their experimental approach to alleviating global poverty”
2018
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2018
Arthur Ashkin
“for the optical tweezers and their application to biological systems and for groundbreaking inventions in the field of laser physics”
Gérard Mourou and Donna Strickland
“for their method of generating high-intensity, ultra-short optical pulses”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2018
Frances H. Arnold
“for the directed evolution of enzymes”
George P. Smith and Sir Gregory P. Winter
“for the phage display of peptides and antibodies”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2018
James P. Allison and Tasuku Honjo
“for their discovery of cancer therapy by inhibition of negative immune regulation”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2018
Olga Tokarczuk
“for a narrative imagination that with encyclopedic passion represents the crossing of boundaries as a form of life”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2018
Denis Mukwege and Nadia Murad
“for their efforts to end the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war and armed conflict”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2018
William D. Nordhaus
“for integrating climate change into long-run macroeconomic analysis”
Paul M. Romer
“for integrating technological innovations into long-run macroeconomic analysis”
2017
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2017
Rainer Weiss, Barry C. Barish and Kip S. Thorne
“for decisive contributions to the LIGO detector and the observation of gravitational waves”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2017
Jacques Dubochet, Joachim Frank and Richard Henderson
“for developing cryo-electron microscopy for the high-resolution structure determination of biomolecules in solution”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2017
Jeffrey C. Hall, Michael Rosbash and Michael W. Young
“for their discoveries of molecular mechanisms controlling the circadian rhythm”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2017
Kazuo Ishiguro
“who, in novels of great emotional force, has uncovered the abyss beneath our illusory sense of connection with the world”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2017
International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons
“for its work to draw attention to the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of any use of nuclear weapons and for its ground-breaking efforts to achieve a treaty-based prohibition of such weapons”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2017
Richard H. Thaler
“for his contributions to behavioural economics”
2016
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2016
David J. Thouless, F. Duncan M. Haldane and J. Michael Kosterlitz
“for theoretical discoveries of topological phase transitions and topological phases of matter”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2016
Jean-Pierre Sauvage, Sir J. Fraser Stoddart and Bernard L. Feringa
“for the design and synthesis of molecular machines”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2016
Yoshinori Ohsumi
“for his discoveries of mechanisms for autophagy”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2016
Bob Dylan
“for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2016
Juan Manuel Santos
“for his resolute efforts to bring the country's more than 50-year-long civil war to an end”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2016
Oliver Hart and Bengt Holmström
“for their contributions to contract theory”
2015
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2015
Takaaki Kajita and Arthur B. McDonald
“for the discovery of neutrino oscillations, which shows that neutrinos have mass”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2015
Tomas Lindahl, Paul Modrich and Aziz Sancar
“for mechanistic studies of DNA repair”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2015
William C. Campbell and Satoshi Ōmura
“for their discoveries concerning a novel therapy against infections caused by roundworm parasites”
Tu Youyou
“for her discoveries concerning a novel therapy against Malaria”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2015
Svetlana Alexievich
“for her polyphonic writings, a monument to suffering and courage in our time”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2015
National Dialogue Quartet
“for its decisive contribution to the building of a pluralistic democracy in Tunisia in the wake of the Jasmine Revolution of 2011”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2015
Angus Deaton
“for his analysis of consumption, poverty, and welfare”
2014
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2014
Isamu Akasaki, Hiroshi Amano and Shuji Nakamura
“for the invention of efficient blue light-emitting diodes which has enabled bright and energy-saving white light sources”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2014
Eric Betzig, Stefan W. Hell and William E. Moerner
“for the development of super-resolved fluorescence microscopy”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2014
John O'Keefe, May-Britt Moser and Edvard I. Moser
“for their discoveries of cells that constitute a positioning system in the brain”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2014
Patrick Modiano
“for the art of memory with which he has evoked the most ungraspable human destinies and uncovered the life-world of the occupation”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2014
Kailash Satyarthi and Malala Yousafzai
“for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2014
Jean Tirole
“for his analysis of market power and regulation”
2013
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2013
François Englert and Peter Higgs
“for the theoretical discovery of a mechanism that contributes to our understanding of the origin of mass of subatomic particles, and which recently was confirmed through the discovery of the predicted fundamental particle, by the ATLAS and CMS experiments at CERN's Large Hadron Collider”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2013
Martin Karplus, Michael Levitt and Arieh Warshel
“for the development of multiscale models for complex chemical systems”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2013
James E. Rothman, Randy W. Schekman and Thomas C. Südhof
“for their discoveries of machinery regulating vesicle traffic, a major transport system in our cells”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2013
Alice Munro
“master of the contemporary short story”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2013
Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
“for its extensive efforts to eliminate chemical weapons”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2013
Eugene F. Fama, Lars Peter Hansen and Robert J. Shiller
“for their empirical analysis of asset prices”
2012
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2012
Serge Haroche and David J. Wineland
“for ground-breaking experimental methods that enable measuring and manipulation of individual quantum systems”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2012
Robert J. Lefkowitz and Brian Kobilka
“for studies of G-protein-coupled receptors”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2012
Sir John B. Gurdon and Shinya Yamanaka
“for the discovery that mature cells can be reprogrammed to become pluripotent”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2012
Mo Yan
“who with hallucinatory realism merges folk tales, history and the contemporary”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2012
European Union
“for over six decades contributed to the advancement of peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights in Europe”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2012
Alvin E. Roth and Lloyd S. Shapley
“for the theory of stable allocations and the practice of market design”
2011
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2011
Saul Perlmutter, Brian P. Schmidt and Adam G. Riess
“for the discovery of the accelerating expansion of the Universe through observations of distant supernovae”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2011
Dan Shechtman
“for the discovery of quasicrystals”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2011
Bruce A. Beutler and Jules A. Hoffmann
“for their discoveries concerning the activation of innate immunity”
Ralph M. Steinman
“for his discovery of the dendritic cell and its role in adaptive immunity”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2011
Tomas Tranströmer
“because, through his condensed, translucent images, he gives us fresh access to reality”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2011
Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Leymah Gbowee and Tawakkol Karman
“for their non-violent struggle for the safety of women and for women's rights to full participation in peace-building work”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2011
Thomas J. Sargent and Christopher A. Sims
“for their empirical research on cause and effect in the macroeconomy”
2010
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2010
Andre Geim and Konstantin Novoselov
“for groundbreaking experiments regarding the two-dimensional material graphene”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2010
Richard F. Heck, Ei-ichi Negishi and Akira Suzuki
“for palladium-catalyzed cross couplings in organic synthesis”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2010
Robert G. Edwards
“for the development of in vitro fertilization”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2010
Mario Vargas Llosa
“for his cartography of structures of power and his trenchant images of the individual's resistance, revolt, and defeat”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2010
Liu Xiaobo
“for his long and non-violent struggle for fundamental human rights in China”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2010
Peter A. Diamond, Dale T. Mortensen and Christopher A. Pissarides
“for their analysis of markets with search frictions”
2009
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2009
Charles K. Kao
“for groundbreaking achievements concerning the transmission of light in fibers for optical communication”
Willard S. Boyle and George E. Smith
“for the invention of an imaging semiconductor circuit - the CCD sensor”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2009
Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath
“for studies of the structure and function of the ribosome”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2009
Elizabeth H. Blackburn, Carol W. Greider and Jack W. Szostak
“for the discovery of how chromosomes are protected by telomeres and the enzyme telomerase”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2009
Herta Müller
“who, with the concentration of poetry and the frankness of prose, depicts the landscape of the dispossessed”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2009
Barack H. Obama
“for his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2009
Elinor Ostrom
“for her analysis of economic governance, especially the commons”
Oliver E. Williamson
“for his analysis of economic governance, especially the boundaries of the firm”
2008
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2008
Yoichiro Nambu
“for the discovery of the mechanism of spontaneous broken symmetry in subatomic physics”
Makoto Kobayashi and Toshihide Maskawa
“for the discovery of the origin of the broken symmetry which predicts the existence of at least three families of quarks in nature”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2008
Osamu Shimomura, Martin Chalfie and Roger Y. Tsien
“for the discovery and development of the green fluorescent protein, GFP”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2008
Harald zur Hausen
“for his discovery of human papilloma viruses causing cervical cancer”
Françoise Barré-Sinoussi and Luc Montagnier
“for their discovery of human immunodeficiency virus”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2008
Jean-Marie Gustave Le Clézio
“author of new departures, poetic adventure and sensual ecstasy, explorer of a humanity beyond and below the reigning civilization”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2008
Martti Ahtisaari
“for his important efforts, on several continents and over more than three decades, to resolve international conflicts”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2008
Paul Krugman
“for his analysis of trade patterns and location of economic activity”
2007
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2007
Albert Fert and Peter Grünberg
“for the discovery of Giant Magnetoresistance”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2007
Gerhard Ertl
“for his studies of chemical processes on solid surfaces”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2007
Mario R. Capecchi, Sir Martin J. Evans and Oliver Smithies
“for their discoveries of principles for introducing specific gene modifications in mice by the use of embryonic stem cells”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2007
Doris Lessing
“that epicist of the female experience, who with scepticism, fire and visionary power has subjected a divided civilisation to scrutiny”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2007
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and Al Gore
“for their efforts to build up and disseminate greater knowledge about man-made climate change, and to lay the foundations for the measures that are needed to counteract such change”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2007
Leonid Hurwicz, Eric S. Maskin and Roger B. Myerson
“for having laid the foundations of mechanism design theory”
2006
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2006
John C. Mather and George F. Smoot
“for their discovery of the blackbody form and anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background radiation”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2006
Roger D. Kornberg
“for his studies of the molecular basis of eukaryotic transcription”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2006
Andrew Z. Fire and Craig C. Mello
“for their discovery of RNA interference - gene silencing by double-stranded RNA”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2006
Orhan Pamuk
“who in the quest for the melancholic soul of his native city has discovered new symbols for the clash and interlacing of cultures”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2006
Muhammad Yunus and Grameen Bank
“for their efforts to create economic and social development from below”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2006
Edmund S. Phelps
“for his analysis of intertemporal tradeoffs in macroeconomic policy”
2005
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2005
Roy J. Glauber
“for his contribution to the quantum theory of optical coherence”
John L. Hall and Theodor W. Hänsch
“for their contributions to the development of laser-based precision spectroscopy, including the optical frequency comb technique”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2005
Yves Chauvin, Robert H. Grubbs and Richard R. Schrock
“for the development of the metathesis method in organic synthesis”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2005
Barry J. Marshall and J. Robin Warren
“for their discovery of the bacterium Helicobacter pylori and its role in gastritis and peptic ulcer disease”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2005
Harold Pinter
“who in his plays uncovers the precipice under everyday prattle and forces entry into oppression's closed rooms”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2005
International Atomic Energy Agency and Mohamed ElBaradei
“for their efforts to prevent nuclear energy from being used for military purposes and to ensure that nuclear energy for peaceful purposes is used in the safest possible way”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2005
Robert J. Aumann and Thomas C. Schelling
“for having enhanced our understanding of conflict and cooperation through game-theory analysis”
2004
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2004
David J. Gross, H. David Politzer and Frank Wilczek
“for the discovery of asymptotic freedom in the theory of the strong interaction”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2004
Aaron Ciechanover, Avram Hershko and Irwin Rose
“for the discovery of ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2004
Richard Axel and Linda B. Buck
“for their discoveries of odorant receptors and the organization of the olfactory system”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2004
Elfriede Jelinek
“for her musical flow of voices and counter-voices in novels and plays that with extraordinary linguistic zeal reveal the absurdity of society's clichés and their subjugating power”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2004
Wangari Maathai
“for her contribution to sustainable development, democracy and peace”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2004
Finn E. Kydland and Edward C. Prescott
“for their contributions to dynamic macroeconomics: the time consistency of economic policy and the driving forces behind business cycles”
2003
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2003
Alexei Abrikosov, Vitaly L. Ginzburg and Anthony J. Leggett
“for pioneering contributions to the theory of superconductors and superfluids”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2003
Peter Agre
“for the discovery of water channels and for discoveries concerning channels in cell membranes”
Roderick MacKinnon
“for structural and mechanistic studies of ion channels”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2003
Paul C. Lauterbur and Sir Peter Mansfield
“for their discoveries concerning magnetic resonance imaging”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2003
J. M. Coetzee
“who in innumerable guises portrays the surprising involvement of the outsider”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2003
Shirin Ebadi
“for her efforts for democracy and human rights. She has focused especially on the struggle for the rights of women and children”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2003
Robert F. Engle III
“for methods of analyzing economic time series with time-varying volatility (ARCH)”
Clive W.J. Granger
“for methods of analyzing economic time series with common trends (cointegration)”
2002
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2002
Raymond Davis Jr. and Masatoshi Koshiba
“for pioneering contributions to astrophysics, in particular for the detection of cosmic neutrinos”
Riccardo Giacconi
“for pioneering contributions to astrophysics, which have led to the discovery of cosmic X-ray sources”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2002
John B. Fenn and Koichi Tanaka
“for their development of soft desorption ionisation methods for mass spectrometric analyses of biological macromolecules and for the development of methods for identification and structure analyses of biological macromolecules”
Kurt Wüthrich
“for his development of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy for determining the three-dimensional structure of biological macromolecules in solution”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2002
Sydney Brenner, H. Robert Horvitz and John E. Sulston
“for their discoveries concerning genetic regulation of organ development and programmed cell death”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2002
Imre Kertész
“for writing that upholds the fragile experience of the individual against the barbaric arbitrariness of history”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2002
Jimmy Carter
“for his decades of untiring effort to find peaceful solutions to international conflicts, to advance democracy and human rights, and to promote economic and social development”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2002
Daniel Kahneman
“for having integrated insights from psychological research into economic science, especially concerning human judgment and decision-making under uncertainty”
Vernon L. Smith
“for having established laboratory experiments as a tool in empirical economic analysis, especially in the study of alternative market mechanisms”
2001
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2001
Eric Cornell, Wolfgang Ketterle and Carl Wieman
“for the achievement of Bose-Einstein condensation in dilute gases of alkali atoms, and for early fundamental studies of the properties of the condensates”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2001
William Knowles and Ryoji Noyori
“for their work on chirally catalysed hydrogenation reactions”
K. Barry Sharpless
“for his work on chirally catalysed oxidation reactions”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2001
Leland Hartwell, Tim Hunt and Sir Paul Nurse
“for their discoveries of key regulators of the cell cycle”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2001
V. S. Naipaul
“for having united perceptive narrative and incorruptible scrutiny in works that compel us to see the presence of suppressed histories”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2001
United Nations and Kofi Annan
“for their work for a better organized and more peaceful world”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2001
George A. Akerlof, A. Michael Spence and Joseph E. Stiglitz
“for their analyses of markets with asymmetric information”
2000
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2000
Zhores Alferov and Herbert Kroemer
“for developing semiconductor heterostructures used in high-speed- and opto-electronics and for basic work on information and communication technology”
Jack Kilby
“for his part in the invention of the integrated circuit”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2000
Alan Heeger, Alan MacDiarmid and Hideki Shirakawa
“for the discovery and development of conductive polymers”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2000
Arvid Carlsson, Paul Greengard and Eric Kandel
“for their discoveries concerning signal transduction in the nervous system”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2000
Gao Xingjian
“for an œuvre of universal validity, bitter insights and linguistic ingenuity, which has opened new paths for the Chinese novel and drama”
The Nobel Peace Prize 2000
Kim Dae-jung
“for his work for democracy and human rights in South Korea and in East Asia in general, and for peace and reconciliation with North Korea in particular”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2000
James J. Heckman
“for his development of theory and methods for analyzing selective samples”
Daniel L. McFadden
“for his development of theory and methods for analyzing discrete choice”
1999
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1999
Gerardus 't Hooft and Martinus J.G. Veltman
“for elucidating the quantum structure of electroweak interactions in physics”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1999
Ahmed Zewail
“for his studies of the transition states of chemical reactions using femtosecond spectroscopy”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1999
Günter Blobel
“for the discovery that proteins have intrinsic signals that govern their transport and localization in the cell”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1999
Günter Grass
“whose frolicsome black fables portray the forgotten face of history”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1999
Doctors Without Borders
“in recognition of the organisation's pioneering humanitarian work on several continents”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1999
Robert Mundell
“for his analysis of monetary and fiscal policy under different exchange rate regimes and his analysis of optimum currency areas”
1998
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1998
Robert B. Laughlin, Horst L. Störmer and Daniel C. Tsui
“for their discovery of a new form of quantum fluid with fractionally charged excitations”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1998
Walter Kohn
“for his development of the density-functional theory”
John Pople
“for his development of computational methods in quantum chemistry”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1998
Robert F. Furchgott, Louis J. Ignarro and Ferid Murad
“for their discoveries concerning nitric oxide as a signalling molecule in the cardiovascular system”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1998
José Saramago
“who with parables sustained by imagination, compassion and irony continually enables us once again to apprehend an elusory reality”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1998
John Hume and David Trimble
“for their efforts to find a peaceful solution to the conflict in Northern Ireland”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1998
Amartya Sen
“for his contributions to welfare economics”
1997
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1997
Steven Chu, Claude Cohen-Tannoudji and William D. Phillips
“for development of methods to cool and trap atoms with laser light”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1997
Paul D. Boyer and John E. Walker
“for their elucidation of the enzymatic mechanism underlying the synthesis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)”
Jens C. Skou
“for the first discovery of an ion-transporting enzyme, Na+, K+ -ATPase”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1997
Stanley B. Prusiner
“for his discovery of Prions - a new biological principle of infection”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1997
Dario Fo
“who emulates the jesters of the Middle Ages in scourging authority and upholding the dignity of the downtrodden”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1997
International Campaign to Ban Landmines and Jody Williams
“for their work for the banning and clearing of anti-personnel mines”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1997
Robert C. Merton and Myron Scholes
“for a new method to determine the value of derivatives”
1996
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1996
David M. Lee, Douglas D. Osheroff and Robert C. Richardson
“for their discovery of superfluidity in helium-3”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1996
Robert F. Curl Jr., Sir Harold Kroto and Richard E. Smalley
“for their discovery of fullerenes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1996
Peter C. Doherty and Rolf M. Zinkernagel
“for their discoveries concerning the specificity of the cell mediated immune defence”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1996
Wisława Szymborska
“for poetry that with ironic precision allows the historical and biological context to come to light in fragments of human reality”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1996
Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo and José Ramos-Horta
“for their work towards a just and peaceful solution to the conflict in East Timor”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1996
James A. Mirrlees and William Vickrey
“for their fundamental contributions to the economic theory of incentives under asymmetric information”
1995
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1995
Martin L. Perl
“for the discovery of the tau lepton and for pioneering experimental contributions to lepton physics”
Frederick Reines
“for the detection of the neutrino”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1995
Paul J. Crutzen, Mario J. Molina and F. Sherwood Rowland
“for their work in atmospheric chemistry, particularly concerning the formation and decomposition of ozone”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1995
Edward B. Lewis, Christiane Nüsslein-Volhard and Eric F. Wieschaus
“for their discoveries concerning the genetic control of early embryonic development”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1995
Seamus Heaney
“for works of lyrical beauty and ethical depth, which exalt everyday miracles and the living past”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1995
Joseph Rotblat and Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs
“for their efforts to diminish the part played by nuclear arms in international politics and, in the longer run, to eliminate such arms”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1995
Robert E. Lucas Jr.
“for having developed and applied the hypothesis of rational expectations, and thereby having transformed macroeconomic analysis and deepened our understanding of economic policy”
1994
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1994
Bertram N. Brockhouse
“for the development of neutron spectroscopy and for pioneering contributions to the development of neutron scattering techniques for studies of condensed matter”
Clifford G. Shull
“for the development of the neutron diffraction technique”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1994
George A. Olah
“for his contribution to carbocation chemistry”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1994
Alfred G. Gilman and Martin Rodbell
“for their discovery of G-proteins and the role of these proteins in signal transduction in cells”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1994
Kenzaburo Oe
“who with poetic force creates an imagined world, where life and myth condense to form a disconcerting picture of the human predicament today”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1994
Yasser Arafat, Shimon Peres and Yitzhak Rabin
“for their efforts to create peace in the Middle East”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1994
John C. Harsanyi, John F. Nash Jr. and Reinhard Selten
“for their pioneering analysis of equilibria in the theory of non-cooperative games”
1993
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1993
Russell A. Hulse and Joseph H. Taylor Jr.
“for the discovery of a new type of pulsar, a discovery that has opened up new possibilities for the study of gravitation”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1993
Kary B. Mullis
“for contributions to the developments of methods within DNA-based chemistry and for his invention of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method"
Michael Smith
“for his fundamental contributions to the establishment of oligonucleotide-based, site-directed mutagenesis and its development for protein studies”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1993
Richard J. Roberts and Phillip A. Sharp
“for their discoveries of split genes”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1993
Toni Morrison
“who in novels characterized by visionary force and poetic import, gives life to an essential aspect of American reality”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1993
Nelson Mandela and F.W. de Klerk
“for their work for the peaceful termination of the apartheid regime, and for laying the foundations for a new democratic South Africa”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1993
Robert W. Fogel and Douglass C. North
“for having renewed research in economic history by applying economic theory and quantitative methods in order to explain economic and institutional change”
1992
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1992
Georges Charpak
“for his invention and development of particle detectors, in particular the multiwire proportional chamber”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1992
Rudolph A. Marcus
“for his contributions to the theory of electron transfer reactions in chemical systems”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1992
Edmond H. Fischer and Edwin G. Krebs
“for their discoveries concerning reversible protein phosphorylation as a biological regulatory mechanism”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1992
Derek Walcott
“for a poetic oeuvre of great luminosity, sustained by a historical vision, the outcome of a multicultural commitment”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1992
Rigoberta Menchú Tum
“for her struggle for social justice and ethno-cultural reconciliation based on respect for the rights of indigenous peoples”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1992
Gary Becker
“for having extended the domain of microeconomic analysis to a wide range of human behaviour and interaction, including nonmarket behaviour”
1991
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1991
Pierre-Gilles de Gennes
“for discovering that methods developed for studying order phenomena in simple systems can be generalized to more complex forms of matter, in particular to liquid crystals and polymers”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1991
Richard R. Ernst
“for his contributions to the development of the methodology of high resolution nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1991
Erwin Neher and Bert Sakmann
“for their discoveries concerning the function of single ion channels in cells”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1991
Nadine Gordimer
“who through her magnificent epic writing has - in the words of Alfred Nobel - been of very great benefit to humanity”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1991
Aung San Suu Kyi
“for her non-violent struggle for democracy and human rights”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1991
Ronald H. Coase
“for his discovery and clarification of the significance of transaction costs and property rights for the institutional structure and functioning of the economy”
1990
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1990
Jerome I. Friedman, Henry W. Kendall and Richard E. Taylor
“for their pioneering investigations concerning deep inelastic scattering of electrons on protons and bound neutrons, which have been of essential importance for the development of the quark model in particle physics”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1990
Elias James Corey
“for his development of the theory and methodology of organic synthesis”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1990
Joseph E. Murray and E. Donnall Thomas
“for their discoveries concerning organ and cell transplantation in the treatment of human disease”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1990
Octavio Paz
“for impassioned writing with wide horizons, characterized by sensuous intelligence and humanistic integrity”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1990
Mikhail Gorbachev
“for the leading role he played in the radical changes in East-West relations”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1990
Harry M. Markowitz, Merton H. Miller and William F. Sharpe
“for their pioneering work in the theory of financial economics”
1989
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1989
Norman F. Ramsey
“for the invention of the separated oscillatory fields method and its use in the hydrogen maser and other atomic clocks”
Hans G. Dehmelt and Wolfgang Paul
“for the development of the ion trap technique”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1989
Sidney Altman and Thomas R. Cech
“for their discovery of catalytic properties of RNA”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1989
J. Michael Bishop and Harold E. Varmus
“for their discovery of the cellular origin of retroviral oncogenes”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1989
Camilo José Cela
“for a rich and intensive prose, which with restrained compassion forms a challenging vision of man's vulnerability”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1989
The 14th Dalai Lama
“for advocating peaceful solutions based upon tolerance and mutual respect in order to preserve the historical and cultural heritage of his people”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1989
Trygve Haavelmo
“for his clarification of the probability theory foundations of econometrics and his analyses of simultaneous economic structures”
1988
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1988
Leon M. Lederman, Melvin Schwartz and Jack Steinberger
“for the neutrino beam method and the demonstration of the doublet structure of the leptons through the discovery of the muon neutrino”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1988
Johann Deisenhofer, Robert Huber and Hartmut Michel
“for the determination of the three-dimensional structure of a photosynthetic reaction centre”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1988
Sir James W. Black, Gertrude B. Elion and George H. Hitchings
“for their discoveries of important principles for drug treatment”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1988
Naguib Mahfouz
“who, through works rich in nuance - now clear-sightedly realistic, now evocatively ambiguous - has formed an Arabian narrative art that applies to all mankind”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1988
United Nations Peacekeeping Forces
“for preventing armed clashes and creating conditions for negotiations”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1988
Maurice Allais
“for his pioneering contributions to the theory of markets and efficient utilization of resources”
1987
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1987
J. Georg Bednorz and K. Alex Müller
“for their important break-through in the discovery of superconductivity in ceramic materials”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1987
Donald J. Cram, Jean-Marie Lehn and Charles J. Pedersen
“for their development and use of molecules with structure-specific interactions of high selectivity”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1987
Susumu Tonegawa
“for his discovery of the genetic principle for generation of antibody diversity”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1987
Joseph Brodsky
“for an all-embracing authorship, imbued with clarity of thought and poetic intensity”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1987
Oscar Arias Sánchez
“for his work for lasting peace in Central America”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1987
Robert M. Solow
“for his contributions to the theory of economic growth”
1986
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1986
Ernst Ruska
“for his fundamental work in electron optics, and for the design of the first electron microscope”
Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer
“for their design of the scanning tunneling microscope”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1986
Dudley R. Herschbach, Yuan T. Lee and John C. Polanyi
“for their contributions concerning the dynamics of chemical elementary processes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1986
Stanley Cohen and Rita Levi-Montalcini
“for their discoveries of growth factors”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1986
Wole Soyinka
“who in a wide cultural perspective and with poetic overtones fashions the drama of existence”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1986
Elie Wiesel
“for being a messenger to mankind: his message is one of peace, atonement and dignity”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1986
James M. Buchanan Jr.
“for his development of the contractual and constitutional bases for the theory of economic and political decision-making”
1985
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1985
Klaus von Klitzing
“for the discovery of the quantized Hall effect”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1985
Herbert A. Hauptman and Jerome Karle
“for their outstanding achievements in the development of direct methods for the determination of crystal structures”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1985
Michael S. Brown and Joseph L. Goldstein
“for their discoveries concerning the regulation of cholesterol metabolism”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1985
Claude Simon
“who in his novel combines the poet's and the painter's creativeness with a deepened awareness of time in the depiction of the human condition”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1985
International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War
“for spreading authoritative information and by creating awareness of the catastrophic consequences of nuclear war”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1985
Franco Modigliani
“for his pioneering analyses of saving and of financial markets”
1984
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1984
Carlo Rubbia and Simon van der Meer
“for their decisive contributions to the large project, which led to the discovery of the field particles W and Z, communicators of weak interaction”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1984
Bruce Merrifield
“for his development of methodology for chemical synthesis on a solid matrix”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1984
Niels K. Jerne, Georges J.F. Köhler and César Milstein
“for theories concerning the specificity in development and control of the immune system and the discovery of the principle for production of monoclonal antibodies”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1984
Jaroslav Seifert
“for his poetry which endowed with freshness, sensuality and rich inventiveness provides a liberating image of the indomitable spirit and versatility of man”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1984
Desmond Tutu
“for his role as a unifying leader figure in the non-violent campaign to resolve the problem of apartheid in South Africa”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1984
Richard Stone
“for having made fundamental contributions to the development of systems of national accounts and hence greatly improved the basis for empirical economic analysis”
1983
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1983
Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar
“for his theoretical studies of the physical processes of importance to the structure and evolution of the stars”
William A. Fowler
“for his theoretical and experimental studies of the nuclear reactions of importance in the formation of the chemical elements in the universe”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1983
Henry Taube
“for his work on the mechanisms of electron transfer reactions, especially in metal complexes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1983
Barbara McClintock
“for her discovery of mobile genetic elements”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1983
William Golding
“for his novels which, with the perspicuity of realistic narrative art and the diversity and universality of myth, illuminate the human condition in the world of today”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1983
Lech Wałęsa
“for non-violent struggle for free trade unions and human rights in Poland”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1983
Gerard Debreu
“for having incorporated new analytical methods into economic theory and for his rigorous reformulation of the theory of general equilibrium”
1982
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1982
Kenneth G. Wilson
“for his theory for critical phenomena in connection with phase transitions”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1982
Aaron Klug
“for his development of crystallographic electron microscopy and his structural elucidation of biologically important nucleic acid-protein complexes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1982
Sune K. Bergström, Bengt I. Samuelsson and John R. Vane
“for their discoveries concerning prostaglandins and related biologically active substances”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1982
Gabriel García Márquez
“for his novels and short stories, in which the fantastic and the realistic are combined in a richly composed world of imagination, reflecting a continent's life and conflicts”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1982
Alva Myrdal and Alfonso García Robles
“for their work for disarmament and nuclear and weapon-free zones”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1982
George J. Stigler
“for his seminal studies of industrial structures, functioning of markets and causes and effects of public regulation”
1981
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1981
Nicolaas Bloembergen and Arthur L. Schawlow
“for their contribution to the development of laser spectroscopy”
Kai M. Siegbahn
“for his contribution to the development of high-resolution electron spectroscopy”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1981
Kenichi Fukui and Roald Hoffmann
“for their theories, developed independently, concerning the course of chemical reactions”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1981
Roger W. Sperry
“for his discoveries concerning the functional specialization of the cerebral hemispheres”
David H. Hubel and Torsten N. Wiesel
“for their discoveries concerning information processing in the visual system”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1981
Elias Canetti
“for writings marked by a broad outlook, a wealth of ideas and artistic power”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1981
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
“for promoting the fundamental rights of refugees”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1981
James Tobin
“for his analysis of financial markets and their relations to expenditure decisions, employment, production and prices”
1980
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1980
James Cronin and Val Fitch
“for the discovery of violations of fundamental symmetry principles in the decay of neutral K-mesons”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1980
Paul Berg
“for his fundamental studies of the biochemistry of nucleic acids, with particular regard to recombinant-DNA”
Walter Gilbert and Frederick Sanger
“for their contributions concerning the determination of base sequences in nucleic acids”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1980
Baruj Benacerraf, Jean Dausset and George D. Snell
“for their discoveries concerning genetically determined structures on the cell surface that regulate immunological reactions”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1980
Czesław Miłosz
“who with uncompromising clear-sightedness voices man's exposed condition in a world of severe conflicts”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1980
Adolfo Pérez Esquivel
“for being a source of inspiration to repressed people, especially in Latin America”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1980
Lawrence R. Klein
“for the creation of econometric models and the application to the analysis of economic fluctuations and economic policies”
1979
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1979
Sheldon Glashow, Abdus Salam and Steven Weinberg
“for their contributions to the theory of the unified weak and electromagnetic interaction between elementary particles, including, inter alia, the prediction of the weak neutral current”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1979
Herbert C. Brown and Georg Wittig
“for their development of the use of boron- and phosphorus-containing compounds, respectively, into important reagents in organic synthesis”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1979
Allan M. Cormack and Godfrey N. Hounsfield
“for the development of computer assisted tomography”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1979
Odysseus Elytis
“for his poetry, which, against the background of Greek tradition, depicts with sensuous strength and intellectual clear-sightedness modern man's struggle for freedom and creativeness”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1979
Mother Teresa
“for her work for bringing help to suffering humanity”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1979
Theodore W. Schultz and Sir Arthur Lewis
“for their pioneering research into economic development research with particular consideration of the problems of developing countries”
1978
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1978
Pyotr Kapitsa
“for his basic inventions and discoveries in the area of low-temperature physics”
Arno Penzias and Robert Woodrow Wilson
“for their discovery of cosmic microwave background radiation”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1978
Peter Mitchell
“for his contribution to the understanding of biological energy transfer through the formulation of the chemiosmotic theory”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1978
Werner Arber, Daniel Nathans and Hamilton O. Smith
“for the discovery of restriction enzymes and their application to problems of molecular genetics”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1978
Isaac Bashevis Singer
“for his impassioned narrative art which, with roots in a Polish-Jewish cultural tradition, brings universal human conditions to life”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1978
Anwar al-Sadat and Menachem Begin
“for jointly having negotiated peace between Egypt and Israel in 1978”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1978
Herbert Simon
“for his pioneering research into the decision-making process within economic organizations”
1977
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1977
Philip W. Anderson, Sir Nevill F. Mott and John H. Van Vleck
“for their fundamental theoretical investigations of the electronic structure of magnetic and disordered systems”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1977
Ilya Prigogine
“for his contributions to non-equilibrium thermodynamics, particularly the theory of dissipative structures”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1977
Roger Guillemin and Andrew V. Schally
“for their discoveries concerning the peptide hormone production of the brain”
Rosalyn Yalow
“for the development of radioimmunoassays of peptide hormones”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1977
Vicente Aleixandre
“for a creative poetic writing which illuminates man's condition in the cosmos and in present-day society, at the same time representing the great renewal of the traditions of Spanish poetry between the wars”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1977
Amnesty International
“for worldwide respect for human rights”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1977
Bertil Ohlin and James E. Meade
“for their pathbreaking contribution to the theory of international trade and international capital movements”
1976
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1976
Burton Richter and Samuel C.C. Ting
“for their pioneering work in the discovery of a heavy elementary particle of a new kind”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1976
William Lipscomb
“for his studies on the structure of boranes illuminating problems of chemical bonding”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1976
Baruch S. Blumberg and D. Carleton Gajdusek
“for their discoveries concerning new mechanisms for the origin and dissemination of infectious diseases”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1976
Saul Bellow
“for the human understanding and subtle analysis of contemporary culture that are combined in his work”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1976
Betty Williams and Mairead Corrigan
“for the courageous efforts in founding a movement to put an end to the violent conflict in Northern Ireland”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1976
Milton Friedman
“for his achievements in the fields of consumption analysis, monetary history and theory and for his demonstration of the complexity of stabilization policy”
1975
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1975
Aage N. Bohr, Ben R. Mottelson and James Rainwater
“for the discovery of the connection between collective motion and particle motion in atomic nuclei and the development of the theory of the structure of the atomic nucleus based on this connection”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1975
John Cornforth
“for his work on the stereochemistry of enzyme-catalyzed reactions”
Vladimir Prelog
“for his research into the stereochemistry of organic molecules and reactions”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1975
David Baltimore, Renato Dulbecco and Howard M. Temin
“for their discoveries concerning the interaction between tumour viruses and the genetic material of the cell”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1975
Eugenio Montale
“for his distinctive poetry which, with great artistic sensitivity, has interpreted human values under the sign of an outlook on life with no illusions”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1975
Andrei Sakharov
“for his struggle for human rights in the Soviet Union, for disarmament and cooperation between all nations”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1975
Leonid Vitaliyevich Kantorovich and Tjalling C. Koopmans
“for their contributions to the theory of optimum allocation of resources”
1974
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1974
Martin Ryle and Antony Hewish
“for their pioneering research in radio astrophysics: Ryle for his observations and inventions, in particular of the aperture synthesis technique, and Hewish for his decisive role in the discovery of pulsars”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1974
Paul J. Flory
“for his fundamental achievements, both theoretical and experimental, in the physical chemistry of the macromolecules”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1974
Albert Claude, Christian de Duve and George E. Palade
“for their discoveries concerning the structural and functional organization of the cell”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1974
Eyvind Johnson
“for a narrative art, far-seeing in lands and ages, in the service of freedom”
Harry Martinson
“for writings that catch the dewdrop and reflect the cosmos”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1974
Seán MacBride
“for his efforts to secure and develop human rights throughout the world”
Eisaku Satō
“for his contribution to stabilize conditions in the Pacific rim area and for signing the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1974
Gunnar Myrdal and Friedrich von Hayek
“for their pioneering work in the theory of money and economic fluctuations and for their penetrating analysis of the interdependence of economic, social and institutional phenomena”
1973
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1973
Leo Esaki and Ivar Giaever
“for their experimental discoveries regarding tunneling phenomena in semiconductors and superconductors, respectively”
Brian D. Josephson
“for his theoretical predictions of the properties of a supercurrent through a tunnel barrier, in particular those phenomena which are generally known as the Josephson effects”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1973
Ernst Otto Fischer and Geoffrey Wilkinson
“for their pioneering work, performed independently, on the chemistry of the organometallic, so called sandwich compounds”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1973
Karl von Frisch, Konrad Lorenz and Nikolaas Tinbergen
“for their discoveries concerning organization and elicitation of individual and social behaviour patterns”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1973
Patrick White
“for an epic and psychological narrative art which has introduced a new continent into literature”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1973
Henry Kissinger and Le Duc Tho
“for jointly having negotiated a cease fire in Vietnam in 1973”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1973
Wassily Leontief
“for the development of the input-output method and for its application to important economic problems”
1972
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1972
John Bardeen, Leon N. Cooper and Robert Schrieffer
“for their jointly developed theory of superconductivity, usually called the BCS-theory”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1972
Christian Anfinsen
“for his work on ribonuclease, especially concerning the connection between the amino acid sequence and the biologically active conformation”
Stanford Moore and William H. Stein
“for their contribution to the understanding of the connection between chemical structure and catalytic activity of the active centre of the ribonuclease molecule”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1972
Gerald M. Edelman and Rodney R. Porter
“for their discoveries concerning the chemical structure of antibodies”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1972
Heinrich Böll
“for his writing which through its combination of a broad perspective on his time and a sensitive skill in characterization has contributed to a renewal of German literature”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1972
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money for 1972 was allocated to the Main Fund”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1972
John R. Hicks and Kenneth J. Arrow
“for their pioneering contributions to general economic equilibrium theory and welfare theory”
1971
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1971
Dennis Gabor
“for his invention and development of the holographic method”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1971
Gerhard Herzberg
“for his contributions to the knowledge of electronic structure and geometry of molecules, particularly free radicals”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1971
Earl W. Sutherland Jr.
“for his discoveries concerning the mechanisms of the action of hormones”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1971
Pablo Neruda
“for a poetry that with the action of an elemental force brings alive a continent's destiny and dreams”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1971
Willy Brandt
“for paving the way for a meaningful dialogue between East and West”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1971
Simon Kuznets
“for his empirically founded interpretation of economic growth which has led to new and deepened insight into the economic and social structure and process of development”
1970
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1970
Hannes Alfvén
“for fundamental work and discoveries in magnetohydro-dynamics with fruitful applications in different parts of plasma physics”
Louis Néel
“for fundamental work and discoveries concerning antiferromagnetism and ferrimagnetism which have led to important applications in solid state physics”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1970
Luis Leloir
“for his discovery of sugar nucleotides and their role in the biosynthesis of carbohydrates”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1970
Sir Bernard Katz, Ulf von Euler and Julius Axelrod
“for their discoveries concerning the humoral transmitters in the nerve terminals and the mechanism for their storage, release and inactivation”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1970
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn
“for the ethical force with which he has pursued the indispensable traditions of Russian literature”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1970
Norman Borlaug
“for having given a well-founded hope - the green revolution”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1970
Paul A. Samuelson
“for the scientific work through which he has developed static and dynamic economic theory and actively contributed to raising the level of analysis in economic science”
1969
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1969
Murray Gell-Mann
“for his contributions and discoveries concerning the classification of elementary particles and their interactions”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1969
Derek Barton and Odd Hassel
“for their contributions to the development of the concept of conformation and its application in chemistry”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1969
Max Delbrück, Alfred D. Hershey and Salvador E. Luria
“for their discoveries concerning the replication mechanism and the genetic structure of viruses”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1969
Samuel Beckett
“for his writing, which - in new forms for the novel and drama - in the destitution of modern man acquires its elevation”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1969
International Labour Organization
“for creating international legislation insuring certain norms for working conditions in every country”
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 1969
Ragnar Frisch and Jan Tinbergen
“for having developed and applied dynamic models for the analysis of economic processes”
1968
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1968
Luis Alvarez
“for his decisive contributions to elementary particle physics, in particular the discovery of a large number of resonance states, made possible through his development of the technique of using hydrogen bubble chamber and data analysis”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1968
Lars Onsager
“for the discovery of the reciprocal relations bearing his name, which are fundamental for the thermodynamics of irreversible processes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1968
Robert W. Holley, H. Gobind Khorana and Marshall W. Nirenberg
“for their interpretation of the genetic code and its function in protein synthesis”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1968
Yasunari Kawabata
“for his narrative mastery, which with great sensibility expresses the essence of the Japanese mind”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1968
René Cassin
“for his struggle to ensure the rights of man as stipulated in the UN Declaration”
1967
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1967
Hans Bethe
“for his contributions to the theory of nuclear reactions, especially his discoveries concerning the energy production in stars”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1967
Manfred Eigen, Ronald G.W. Norrish and George Porter
“for their studies of extremely fast chemical reactions, effected by disturbing the equilibrium by means of very short pulses of energy”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1967
Ragnar Granit, Keffer Hartline and George Wald
“for their discoveries concerning the primary physiological and chemical visual processes in the eye”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1967
Miguel Angel Asturias
“for his vivid literary achievement, deep-rooted in the national traits and traditions of Indian peoples of Latin America”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1967
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
1966
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1966
Alfred Kastler
“for the discovery and development of optical methods for studying Hertzian resonances in atoms”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1966
Robert S. Mulliken
“for his fundamental work concerning chemical bonds and the electronic structure of molecules by the molecular orbital method”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1966
Peyton Rous
“for his discovery of tumour-inducing viruses”
Charles B. Huggins
“for his discoveries concerning hormonal treatment of prostatic cancer”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1966
Shmuel Agnon
“for his profoundly characteristic narrative art with motifs from the life of the Jewish people”
Nelly Sachs
“for her outstanding lyrical and dramatic writing, which interprets Israel's destiny with touching strength”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1966
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1965
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1965
Sin-Itiro Tomonaga, Julian Schwinger and Richard P. Feynman
“for their fundamental work in quantum electrodynamics, with deep-ploughing consequences for the physics of elementary particles”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1965
Robert B. Woodward
“for his outstanding achievements in the art of organic synthesis”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1965
François Jacob, André Lwoff and Jacques Monod
“for their discoveries concerning genetic control of enzyme and virus synthesis”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1965
Mikhail Sholokhov
“for the artistic power and integrity with which, in his epic of the Don, he has given expression to a historic phase in the life of the Russian people”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1965
United Nations Children's Fund
“for its effort to enhance solidarity between nations and reduce the difference between rich and poor states”
1964
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1964
Charles H. Townes, Nicolay G. Basov and Aleksandr M. Prokhorov
“for fundamental work in the field of quantum electronics, which has led to the construction of oscillators and amplifiers based on the maser-laser principle”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1964
Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin
“for her determinations by X-ray techniques of the structures of important biochemical substances”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1964
Konrad Bloch and Feodor Lynen
“for their discoveries concerning the mechanism and regulation of the cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1964
Jean-Paul Sartre
“for his work which, rich in ideas and filled with the spirit of freedom and the quest for truth, has exerted a far-reaching influence on our age”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1964
Martin Luther King Jr.
“for his non-violent struggle for civil rights for the Afro-American population”
1963
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1963
Eugene Wigner
“for his contributions to the theory of the atomic nucleus and the elementary particles, particularly through the discovery and application of fundamental symmetry principles”
Maria Goeppert Mayer and J. Hans D. Jensen
“for their discoveries concerning nuclear shell structure”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1963
Karl Ziegler and Giulio Natta
“for their discoveries in the field of the chemistry and technology of high polymers”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1963
Sir John Eccles, Alan Hodgkin and Andrew Huxley
“for their discoveries concerning the ionic mechanisms involved in excitation and inhibition in the peripheral and central portions of the nerve cell membrane”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1963
Giorgos Seferis
“for his eminent lyrical writing, inspired by a deep feeling for the Hellenic world of culture”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1963
International Committee of the Red Cross and League of Red Cross Societies
“for promoting the principles of the Geneva Convention and cooperation with the UN”
1962
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1962
Lev Landau
“for his pioneering theories for condensed matter, especially liquid helium”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1962
Max F. Perutz and John C. Kendrew
“for their studies of the structures of globular proteins”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1962
Francis Crick, James Watson and Maurice Wilkins
“for their discoveries concerning the molecular structure of nucleic acids and its significance for information transfer in living material”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1962
John Steinbeck
“for his realistic and imaginative writings, combining as they do sympathetic humour and keen social perception”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1962
Linus Pauling
“for his fight against the nuclear arms race between East and West”
1961
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1961
Robert Hofstadter
“for his pioneering studies of electron scattering in atomic nuclei and for his thereby achieved discoveries concerning the structure of the nucleons”
Rudolf Mössbauer
“for his researches concerning the resonance absorption of gamma radiation and his discovery in this connection of the effect which bears his name”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1961
Melvin Calvin
“for his research on the carbon dioxide assimilation in plants”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1961
Georg von Békésy
“for his discoveries of the physical mechanism of stimulation within the cochlea”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1961
Ivo Andrić
“for the epic force with which he has traced themes and depicted human destinies drawn from the history of his country”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1961
Dag Hammarskjöld
“for developing the UN into an effective and constructive international organization, capable of giving life to the principles and aims expressed in the UN Charter”
1960
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1960
Donald A. Glaser
“for the invention of the bubble chamber”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1960
Willard F. Libby
“for his method to use carbon-14 for age determination in archaeology, geology, geophysics, and other branches of science”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1960
Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnet and Peter Medawar
“for discovery of acquired immunological tolerance”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1960
Saint-John Perse
“for the soaring flight and the evocative imagery of his poetry which in a visionary fashion reflects the conditions of our time”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1960
Albert Lutuli
“for his non-violent struggle against apartheid”
1959
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1959
Emilio Segrè and Owen Chamberlain
“for their discovery of the antiproton”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1959
Jaroslav Heyrovsky
“for his discovery and development of the polarographic methods of analysis”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1959
Severo Ochoa and Arthur Kornberg
“for their discovery of the mechanisms in the biological synthesis of ribonucleic acid and deoxyribonucleic acid”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1959
Salvatore Quasimodo
“for his lyrical poetry, which with classical fire expresses the tragic experience of life in our own times”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1959
Philip Noel-Baker
“for his longstanding contribution to the cause of disarmament and peace”
1958
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1958
Pavel A. Cherenkov, Il´ja M. Frank and Igor Y. Tamm
“for the discovery and the interpretation of the Cherenkov effect”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1958
Frederick Sanger
“for his work on the structure of proteins, especially that of insulin”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1958
George Beadle and Edward Tatum
“for their discovery that genes act by regulating definite chemical events”
Joshua Lederberg
“for his discoveries concerning genetic recombination and the organization of the genetic material of bacteria”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1958
Boris Pasternak
“for his important achievement both in contemporary lyrical poetry and in the field of the great Russian epic tradition”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1958
Georges Pire
“for his efforts to help refugees to leave their camps and return to a life of freedom and dignity”
1957
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1957
Chen Ning Yang and Tsung-Dao Lee
“for their penetrating investigation of the so-called parity laws which has led to important discoveries regarding the elementary particles”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1957
Lord Todd
“for his work on nucleotides and nucleotide co-enzymes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1957
Daniel Bovet
“for his discoveries relating to synthetic compounds that inhibit the action of certain body substances, and especially their action on the vascular system and the skeletal muscles”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1957
Albert Camus
“for his important literary production, which with clear-sighted earnestness illuminates the problems of the human conscience in our times”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1957
Lester Bowles Pearson
“for his crucial contribution to the deployment of a United Nations Emergency Force in the wake of the Suez Crisis”
1956
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1956
William B. Shockley, John Bardeen and Walter H. Brattain
“for their researches on semiconductors and their discovery of the transistor effect”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1956
Sir Cyril Hinshelwood and Nikolay Semenov
“for their researches into the mechanism of chemical reactions”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1956
André F. Cournand, Werner Forssmann and Dickinson W. Richards
“for their discoveries concerning heart catheterization and pathological changes in the circulatory system”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1956
Juan Ramón Jiménez
“for his lyrical poetry, which in Spanish language constitutes an example of high spirit and artistical purity”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1956
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
1955
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1955
Willis E. Lamb
“for his discoveries concerning the fine structure of the hydrogen spectrum”
Polykarp Kusch
“for his precision determination of the magnetic moment of the electron”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1955
Vincent du Vigneaud
“for his work on biochemically important sulphur compounds, especially for the first synthesis of a polypeptide hormone”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1955
Hugo Theorell
“for his discoveries concerning the nature and mode of action of oxidation enzymes”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1955
Halldór Laxness
“for his vivid epic power which has renewed the great narrative art of Iceland”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1955
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1954
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1954
Max Born
“for his fundamental research in quantum mechanics, especially for his statistical interpretation of the wavefunction”
Walther Bothe
“for the coincidence method and his discoveries made therewith”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1954
Linus Pauling
“for his research into the nature of the chemical bond and its application to the elucidation of the structure of complex substances”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1954
John F. Enders, Thomas H. Weller and Frederick C. Robbins
“for their discovery of the ability of poliomyelitis viruses to grow in cultures of various types of tissue”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1954
Ernest Hemingway
“for his mastery of the art of narrative, most recently demonstrated in The Old Man and the Sea, and for the influence that he has exerted on contemporary style”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1954
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
“for its efforts to heal the wounds of war by providing help and protection to refugees all over the world”
1953
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1953
Frits Zernike
“for his demonstration of the phase contrast method, especially for his invention of the phase contrast microscope”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1953
Hermann Staudinger
“for his discoveries in the field of macromolecular chemistry”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1953
Hans Krebs
“for his discovery of the citric acid cycle”
Fritz Lipmann
“for his discovery of co-enzyme A and its importance for intermediary metabolism”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1953
Winston Churchill
“for his mastery of historical and biographical description as well as for brilliant oratory in defending exalted human values”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1953
George C. Marshall
“for proposing and supervising the plan for the economic recovery of Europe”
1952
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1952
Felix Bloch and E. M. Purcell
“for their development of new methods for nuclear magnetic precision measurements and discoveries in connection therewith”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1952
Archer J.P. Martin and Richard L.M. Synge
“for their invention of partition chromatography”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1952
Selman A. Waksman
“for his discovery of streptomycin, the first antibiotic effective against tuberculosis”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1952
François Mauriac
“for the deep spiritual insight and the artistic intensity with which he has in his novels penetrated the drama of human life”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1952
Albert Schweitzer
“for his altruism, reverence for life, and tireless humanitarian work which has helped making the idea of brotherhood between men and nations a living one”
1951
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1951
John Cockcroft and Ernest T.S. Walton
“for their pioneer work on the transmutation of atomic nuclei by artificially accelerated atomic particles”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1951
Edwin M. McMillan and Glenn T. Seaborg
“for their discoveries in the chemistry of the transuranium elements”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1951
Max Theiler
“for his discoveries concerning yellow fever and how to combat it”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1951
Pär Lagerkvist
“for the artistic vigour and true independence of mind with which he endeavours in his poetry to find answers to the eternal questions confronting mankind”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1951
Léon Jouhaux
“for having devoted his life to the fight against war through the promotion of social justice and brotherhood among men and nations”
1950
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1950
Cecil Powell
“for his development of the photographic method of studying nuclear processes and his discoveries regarding mesons made with this method”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1950
Otto Diels and Kurt Alder
“for their discovery and development of the diene synthesis”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1950
Edward C. Kendall, Tadeus Reichstein and Philip S. Hench
“for their discoveries relating to the hormones of the adrenal cortex, their structure and biological effects”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1950
Bertrand Russell
“in recognition of his varied and significant writings in which he champions humanitarian ideals and freedom of thought”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1950
Ralph Bunche
“for his work as mediator in Palestine in 1948-1949”
1949
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1949
Hideki Yukawa
“for his prediction of the existence of mesons on the basis of theoretical work on nuclear forces”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1949
William F. Giauque
“for his contributions in the field of chemical thermodynamics, particularly concerning the behaviour of substances at extremely low temperatures”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1949
Walter Hess
“for his discovery of the functional organization of the interbrain as a coordinator of the activities of the internal organs”
Egas Moniz
“for his discovery of the therapeutic value of leucotomy in certain psychoses”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1949
William Faulkner
“for his powerful and artistically unique contribution to the modern American novel”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1949
Lord Boyd Orr
“for his lifelong effort to conquer hunger and want, thereby helping to remove a major cause of military conflict and war”
1948
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1948
Patrick M.S. Blackett
“for his development of the Wilson cloud chamber method, and his discoveries therewith in the fields of nuclear physics and cosmic radiation”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1948
Arne Tiselius
“for his research on electrophoresis and adsorption analysis, especially for his discoveries concerning the complex nature of the serum proteins”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1948
Paul Müller
“for his discovery of the high efficiency of DDT as a contact poison against several arthropods”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1948
T.S. Eliot
“for his outstanding, pioneer contribution to present-day poetry”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1948
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
1947
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1947
Edward V. Appleton
“for his investigations of the physics of the upper atmosphere especially for the discovery of the so-called Appleton layer”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1947
Sir Robert Robinson
“for his investigations on plant products of biological importance, especially the alkaloids”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1947
Carl Cori and Gerty Cori
“for their discovery of the course of the catalytic conversion of glycogen”
Bernardo Houssay
“for his discovery of the part played by the hormone of the anterior pituitary lobe in the metabolism of sugar”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1947
André Gide
“for his comprehensive and artistically significant writings, in which human problems and conditions have been presented with a fearless love of truth and keen psychological insight”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1947
Friends Service Council and American Friends Service Committee
“for their pioneering work in the international peace movement and compassionate effort to relieve human suffering, thereby promoting the fraternity between nations”
1946
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1946
Percy W. Bridgman
“for the invention of an apparatus to produce extremely high pressures, and for the discoveries he made therewith in the field of high pressure physics”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1946
James B. Sumner
“for his discovery that enzymes can be crystallized”
John H. Northrop and Wendell M. Stanley
“for their preparation of enzymes and virus proteins in a pure form”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1946
Hermann J. Muller
“for the discovery of the production of mutations by means of X-ray irradiation”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1946
Hermann Hesse
“for his inspired writings which, while growing in boldness and penetration, exemplify the classical humanitarian ideals and high qualities of style”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1946
Emily Greene Balch
“for her lifelong work for the cause of peace”
John R. Mott
“for his contribution to the creation of a peace-promoting religious brotherhood across national boundaries”
1945
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1945
Wolfgang Pauli
“for the discovery of the Exclusion Principle, also called the Pauli Principle”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1945
Artturi Virtanen
“for his research and inventions in agricultural and nutrition chemistry, especially for his fodder preservation method”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1945
Sir Alexander Fleming, Ernst B. Chain and Sir Howard Florey
“for the discovery of penicillin and its curative effect in various infectious diseases”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1945
Gabriela Mistral
“for her lyric poetry which, inspired by powerful emotions, has made her name a symbol of the idealistic aspirations of the entire Latin American world”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1945
Cordell Hull
“for his indefatigable work for international understanding and his pivotal role in establishing the United Nations”
1944
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1944
Isidor Isaac Rabi
“for his resonance method for recording the magnetic properties of atomic nuclei”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1944
Otto Hahn
“for his discovery of the fission of heavy nuclei”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1944
Joseph Erlanger and Herbert S. Gasser
“for their discoveries relating to the highly differentiated functions of single nerve fibres”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1944
Johannes V. Jensen
“for the rare strength and fertility of his poetic imagination with which is combined an intellectual curiosity of wide scope and a bold, freshly creative style”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1944
International Committee of the Red Cross
“for the great work it has performed during the war on behalf of humanity”
1943
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1943
Otto Stern
“for his contribution to the development of the molecular ray method and his discovery of the magnetic moment of the proton”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1943
George de Hevesy
“for his work on the use of isotopes as tracers in the study of chemical processes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1943
Henrik Dam
“for his discovery of vitamin K”
Edward A. Doisy
“for his discovery of the chemical nature of vitamin K”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1943
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1943
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
1942
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1942
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1942
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1942
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1942
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1942
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
1941
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1941
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1941
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1941
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1941
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1941
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
1940
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1940
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1940
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1940
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1940
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1940
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
1939
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1939
Ernest Lawrence
“for the invention and development of the cyclotron and for results obtained with it, especially with regard to artificial radioactive elements”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1939
Adolf Butenandt
“for his work on sex hormones”
Leopold Ruzicka
“for his work on polymethylenes and higher terpenes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1939
Gerhard Domagk
“for the discovery of the antibacterial effects of prontosil”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1939
Frans Eemil Sillanpää
“for his deep understanding of his country's peasantry and the exquisite art with which he has portrayed their way of life and their relationship with Nature”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1939
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
1938
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1938
Enrico Fermi
“for his demonstrations of the existence of new radioactive elements produced by neutron irradiation, and for his related discovery of nuclear reactions brought about by slow neutrons”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1938
Richard Kuhn
“for his work on carotenoids and vitamins”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1938
Corneille Heymans
“for the discovery of the role played by the sinus and aortic mechanisms in the regulation of respiration”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1938
Pearl Buck
“for her rich and truly epic descriptions of peasant life in China and for her biographical masterpieces”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1938
Nansen International Office for Refugees
“for having carried on the work of Fridtjof Nansen to the benefit of refugees across Europe”
1937
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1937
Clinton Davisson and George Paget Thomson
“for their experimental discovery of the diffraction of electrons by crystals”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1937
Norman Haworth
“for his investigations on carbohydrates and vitamin C”
Paul Karrer
“for his investigations on carotenoids, flavins and vitamins A and B2”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1937
Albert Szent-Györgyi
“for his discoveries in connection with the biological combustion processes, with special reference to vitamin C and the catalysis of fumaric acid”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1937
Roger Martin du Gard
“for the artistic power and truth with which he has depicted human conflict as well as some fundamental aspects of contemporary life in his novel-cycle Les Thibault”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1937
Robert Cecil, Viscount Cecil of Chelwood
“for his tireless effort in support of the League of Nations, disarmament and peace”
1936
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1936
Victor F. Hess
“for his discovery of cosmic radiation”
Carl D. Anderson
“for his discovery of the positron”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1936
Peter Debye
“for his contributions to our knowledge of molecular structure through his investigations on dipole moments and on the diffraction of X-rays and electrons in gases”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1936
Sir Henry Dale and Otto Loewi
“for their discoveries relating to chemical transmission of nerve impulses”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1936
Eugene O'Neill
“for the power, honesty and deep-felt emotions of his dramatic works, which embody an original concept of tragedy”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1936
Carlos Saavedra Lamas
“for his role as father of the Argentine Antiwar Pact of 1933, which he also used as a means to mediate peace between Paraguay and Bolivia in 1935”
1935
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1935
James Chadwick
“for the discovery of the neutron”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1935
Frédéric Joliot and Irène Joliot-Curie
“in recognition of their synthesis of new radioactive elements”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1935
Hans Spemann
“for his discovery of the organizer effect in embryonic development”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1935
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1935
Carl von Ossietzky
“for his burning love for freedom of thought and expression and his valuable contribution to the cause of peace”
1934
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1934
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1934
Harold C. Urey
“for his discovery of heavy hydrogen”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1934
George H. Whipple, George R. Minot and William P. Murphy
“for their discoveries concerning liver therapy in cases of anaemia”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1934
Luigi Pirandello
“for his bold and ingenious revival of dramatic and scenic art”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1934
Arthur Henderson
“for his untiring struggle and his courageous efforts as Chairman of the League of Nations Disarmament Conference 1931-34”
1933
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1933
Erwin Schrödinger and Paul A.M. Dirac
“for the discovery of new productive forms of atomic theory”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1933
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. 1/3 of the prize money was allocated to the main fund and 2/3 was allocated to the special fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1933
Thomas H. Morgan
“for his discoveries concerning the role played by the chromosome in heredity”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1933
Ivan Bunin
“for the strict artistry with which he has carried on the classical Russian traditions in prose writing”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1933
Sir Norman Angell
“for having exposed by his pen the illusion of war and presented a convincing plea for international cooperation and peace”
1932
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1932
Werner Heisenberg
“for the creation of quantum mechanics, the application of which has, inter alia, led to the discovery of the allotropic forms of hydrogen”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1932
Irving Langmuir
“for his discoveries and investigations in surface chemistry”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1932
Sir Charles Sherrington and Edgar Adrian
“for their discoveries regarding the functions of neurons”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1932
John Galsworthy
“for his distinguished art of narration which takes its highest form in The Forsyte Saga”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1932
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1931
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1931
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1931
Carl Bosch and Friedrich Bergius
“in recognition of their contributions to the invention and development of chemical high pressure methods”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1931
Otto Warburg
“for his discovery of the nature and mode of action of the respiratory enzyme”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1931
Erik Axel Karlfeldt
“The poetry of Erik Axel Karlfeldt”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1931
Jane Addams and Nicholas Murray Butler
“for their assiduous effort to revive the ideal of peace and to rekindle the spirit of peace in their own nation and in the whole of mankind”
1930
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1930
Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman
“for his work on the scattering of light and for the discovery of the effect named after him”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1930
Hans Fischer
“for his researches into the constitution of haemin and chlorophyll and especially for his synthesis of haemin”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1930
Karl Landsteiner
“for his discovery of human blood groups”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1930
Sinclair Lewis
“for his vigorous and graphic art of description and his ability to create, with wit and humour, new types of characters”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1930
Nathan Söderblom
“for promoting Christian unity and helping create 'that new attitude of mind which is necessary if peace between nations is to become reality'”
1929
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1929
Louis de Broglie
“for his discovery of the wave nature of electrons”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1929
Arthur Harden and Hans von Euler-Chelpin
“for their investigations on the fermentation of sugar and fermentative enzymes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1929
Christiaan Eijkman
“for his discovery of the antineuritic vitamin”
Sir Frederick Hopkins
“for his discovery of the growth-stimulating vitamins”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1929
Thomas Mann
“principally for his great novel, Buddenbrooks, which has won steadily increased recognition as one of the classic works of contemporary literature”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1929
Frank B. Kellogg
“for his crucial role in bringing about the Briand-Kellogg Pact”
1928
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1928
Owen Willans Richardson
“for his work on the thermionic phenomenon and especially for the discovery of the law named after him”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1928
Adolf Windaus
“for the services rendered through his research into the constitution of the sterols and their connection with the vitamins”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1928
Charles Nicolle
“for his work on typhus”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1928
Sigrid Undset
“principally for her powerful descriptions of Northern life during the Middle Ages”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1928
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1927
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1927
Arthur H. Compton
“for his discovery of the effect named after him”
C.T.R. Wilson
“for his method of making the paths of electrically charged particles visible by condensation of vapour”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1927
Heinrich Wieland
“for his investigations of the constitution of the bile acids and related substances”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1927
Julius Wagner-Jauregg
“for his discovery of the therapeutic value of malaria inoculation in the treatment of dementia paralytica”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1927
Henri Bergson
“in recognition of his rich and vitalizing ideas and the brilliant skill with which they have been presented”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1927
Ferdinand Buisson and Ludwig Quidde
“for their contribution to the emergence in France and Germany of a public opinion which favours peaceful international cooperation”
1926
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1926
Jean Baptiste Perrin
“for his work on the discontinuous structure of matter, and especially for his discovery of sedimentation equilibrium”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1926
The Svedberg
“for his work on disperse systems”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1926
Johannes Fibiger
“for his discovery of the Spiroptera carcinoma”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1926
Grazia Deledda
“for her idealistically inspired writings which with plastic clarity picture the life on her native island and with depth and sympathy deal with human problems in general”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1926
Aristide Briand and Gustav Stresemann
“for their crucial role in bringing about the Locarno Treaty”
1925
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1925
James Franck and Gustav Hertz
“for their discovery of the laws governing the impact of an electron upon an atom”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1925
Richard Zsigmondy
“for his demonstration of the heterogenous nature of colloid solutions and for the methods he used, which have since become fundamental in modern colloid chemistry”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1925
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1925
George Bernard Shaw
“for his work which is marked by both idealism and humanity, its stimulating satire often being infused with a singular poetic beauty”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1925
Sir Austen Chamberlain
“for his crucial role in bringing about the Locarno Treaty”
Charles G. Dawes
“for his crucial role in bringing about the Dawes Plan”
1924
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1924
Manne Siegbahn
“for his discoveries and research in the field of X-ray spectroscopy”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1924
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1924
Willem Einthoven
“for his discovery of the mechanism of the electrocardiogram”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1924
Władysław Reymont
“for his great national epic, The Peasants”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1924
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1923
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1923
Robert A. Millikan
“for his work on the elementary charge of electricity and on the photoelectric effect”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1923
Fritz Pregl
“for his invention of the method of micro-analysis of organic substances”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1923
Frederick G. Banting and John Macleod
“for the discovery of insulin”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1923
William Butler Yeats
“for his always inspired poetry, which in a highly artistic form gives expression to the spirit of a whole nation”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1923
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1922
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1922
Niels Bohr
“for his services in the investigation of the structure of atoms and of the radiation emanating from them”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1922
Francis W. Aston
“for his discovery, by means of his mass spectrograph, of isotopes, in a large number of non-radioactive elements, and for his enunciation of the whole-number rule”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1922
Archibald V. Hill
“for his discovery relating to the production of heat in the muscle”
Otto Meyerhof
“for his discovery of the fixed relationship between the consumption of oxygen and the metabolism of lactic acid in the muscle”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1922
Jacinto Benavente
“for the happy manner in which he has continued the illustrious traditions of the Spanish drama”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1922
Fridtjof Nansen
“for his leading role in the repatriation of prisoners of war, in international relief work and as the League of Nations' High Commissioner for refugees”
1921
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1921
Albert Einstein
“for his services to Theoretical Physics, and especially for his discovery of the law of the photoelectric effect”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1921
Frederick Soddy
“for his contributions to our knowledge of the chemistry of radioactive substances, and his investigations into the origin and nature of isotopes”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1921
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1921
Anatole France
“in recognition of his brilliant literary achievements, characterized as they are by a nobility of style, a profound human sympathy, grace, and a true Gallic temperament”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1921
Hjalmar Branting and Christian Lange
“for their lifelong contributions to the cause of peace and organized internationalism”
1920
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1920
Charles Edouard Guillaume
“in recognition of the service he has rendered to precision measurements in Physics by his discovery of anomalies in nickel steel alloys”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1920
Walther Nernst
“in recognition of his work in thermochemistry”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1920
August Krogh
“for his discovery of the capillary motor regulating mechanism”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1920
Knut Hamsun
“for his monumental work, Growth of the Soil”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1920
Léon Bourgeois
“for his longstanding contribution to the cause of peace and justice and his prominent role in the establishment of the League of Nations”
1919
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1919
Johannes Stark
“for his discovery of the Doppler effect in canal rays and the splitting of spectral lines in electric fields”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1919
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1919
Jules Bordet
“for his discoveries relating to immunity”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1919
Carl Spitteler
“in special appreciation of his epic, Olympian Spring”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1919
Woodrow Wilson
“for his role as founder of the League of Nations”
1918
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1918
Max Planck
“in recognition of the services he rendered to the advancement of Physics by his discovery of energy quanta”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1918
Fritz Haber
“for the synthesis of ammonia from its elements”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1918
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1918
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1918
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1917
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1917
Charles Glover Barkla
“for his discovery of the characteristic Röntgen radiation of the elements”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1917
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1917
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1917
Karl Gjellerup
“for his varied and rich poetry, which is inspired by lofty ideals”
Henrik Pontoppidan
“for his authentic descriptions of present-day life in Denmark”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1917
International Committee of the Red Cross
“for the efforts to take care of wounded soldiers and prisoners of war and their families”
1916
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1916
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1916
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1916
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1916
Verner von Heidenstam
“in recognition of his significance as the leading representative of a new era in our literature”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1916
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1915
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1915
William Bragg and Lawrence Bragg
“for their services in the analysis of crystal structure by means of X-rays”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1915
Richard Willstätter
“for his researches on plant pigments, especially chlorophyll”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1915
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1915
Romain Rolland
“as a tribute to the lofty idealism of his literary production and to the sympathy and love of truth with which he has described different types of human beings”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1915
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1914
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1914
Max von Laue
“for his discovery of the diffraction of X-rays by crystals”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1914
Theodore W. Richards
“in recognition of his accurate determinations of the atomic weight of a large number of chemical elements”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1914
Robert Bárány
“for his work on the physiology and pathology of the vestibular apparatus”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1914
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1914
“No Nobel Prize was awarded this year. The prize money was allocated to the Special Fund of this prize section”
1913
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1913
Heike Kamerlingh Onnes
“for his investigations on the properties of matter at low temperatures which led, inter alia, to the production of liquid helium”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1913
Alfred Werner
“in recognition of his work on the linkage of atoms in molecules by which he has thrown new light on earlier investigations and opened up new fields of research especially in inorganic chemistry”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1913
Charles Richet
“in recognition of his work on anaphylaxis”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1913
Rabindranath Tagore
“because of his profoundly sensitive, fresh and beautiful verse, by which, with consummate skill, he has made his poetic thought, expressed in his own English words, a part of the literature of the West”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1913
Henri La Fontaine
“for his unparalleled contribution to the organization of peaceful internationalism”
1912
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1912
Gustaf Dalén
“for his invention of automatic regulators for use in conjunction with gas accumulators for illuminating lighthouses and buoys”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1912
Victor Grignard
“for the discovery of the so-called Grignard reagent, which in recent years has greatly advanced the progress of organic chemistry”
Paul Sabatier
“for his method of hydrogenating organic compounds in the presence of finely disintegrated metals whereby the progress of organic chemistry has been greatly advanced in recent years”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1912
Alexis Carrel
“in recognition of his work on vascular suture and the transplantation of blood vessels and organs”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1912
Gerhart Hauptmann
“primarily in recognition of his fruitful, varied and outstanding production in the realm of dramatic art”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1912
Elihu Root
“for bringing about better understanding between the countries of North and South America and initiating important arbitration agreements between the United States and other countries”
1911
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1911
Wilhelm Wien
“for his discoveries regarding the laws governing the radiation of heat”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1911
Marie Curie
“in recognition of her services to the advancement of chemistry by the discovery of the elements radium and polonium, by the isolation of radium and the study of the nature and compounds of this remarkable element”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1911
Allvar Gullstrand
“for his work on the dioptrics of the eye”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1911
Maurice Maeterlinck
“in appreciation of his many-sided literary activities, and especially of his dramatic works, which are distinguished by a wealth of imagination and by a poetic fancy, which reveals, sometimes in the guise of a fairy tale, a deep inspiration, while in a mysterious way they appeal to the readers' own feelings and stimulate their imaginations”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1911
Tobias Asser
“for his role as co-founder of the Institut de droit international, initiator of the Conferences on International Private Law (Conférences de Droit international privé) at the Hague, and pioneer in the field of international legal relations”
Alfred Fried
“for his effort to expose and fight what he considers to be the main cause of war, namely, the anarchy in international relations”
1910
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1910
Johannes Diderik van der Waals
“for his work on the equation of state for gases and liquids”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1910
Otto Wallach
“in recognition of his services to organic chemistry and the chemical industry by his pioneer work in the field of alicyclic compounds”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1910
Albrecht Kossel
“in recognition of the contributions to our knowledge of cell chemistry made through his work on proteins, including the nucleic substances”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1910
Paul Heyse
“as a tribute to the consummate artistry, permeated with idealism, which he has demonstrated during his long productive career as a lyric poet, dramatist, novelist and writer of world-renowned short stories”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1910
Permanent International Peace Bureau
“for acting as a link between the peace societies of the various countries, and helping them to organize the world rallies of the international peace movement”
1909
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1909
Guglielmo Marconi and Ferdinand Braun
“in recognition of their contributions to the development of wireless telegraphy”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1909
Wilhelm Ostwald
“in recognition of his work on catalysis and for his investigations into the fundamental principles governing chemical equilibria and rates of reaction”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1909
Theodor Kocher
“for his work on the physiology, pathology and surgery of the thyroid gland”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1909
Selma Lagerlöf
“in appreciation of the lofty idealism, vivid imagination and spiritual perception that characterize her writings”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1909
Auguste Beernaert and Paul Henri d'Estournelles de Constant
“for their prominent position in the international movement for peace and arbitration”
1908
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1908
Gabriel Lippmann
“for his method of reproducing colours photographically based on the phenomenon of interference”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1908
Ernest Rutherford
“for his investigations into the disintegration of the elements, and the chemistry of radioactive substances”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1908
Ilya Mechnikov and Paul Ehrlich
“in recognition of their work on immunity”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1908
Rudolf Eucken
“in recognition of his earnest search for truth, his penetrating power of thought, his wide range of vision, and the warmth and strength in presentation with which in his numerous works he has vindicated and developed an idealistic philosophy of life”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1908
Klas Pontus Arnoldson and Fredrik Bajer
“for their long time work for the cause of peace as politicians, peace society leaders, orators and authors”
1907
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1907
Albert A. Michelson
“for his optical precision instruments and the spectroscopic and metrological investigations carried out with their aid”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1907
Eduard Buchner
“for his biochemical researches and his discovery of cell-free fermentation”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1907
Alphonse Laveran
“in recognition of his work on the role played by protozoa in causing diseases”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1907
Rudyard Kipling
“in consideration of the power of observation, originality of imagination, virility of ideas and remarkable talent for narration which characterize the creations of this world-famous author”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1907
Ernesto Teodoro Moneta
“for his work in the press and in peace meetings, both public and private, for an understanding between France and Italy”
Louis Renault
“for his decisive influence upon the conduct and outcome of the Hague and Geneva Conferences”
1906
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1906
J.J. Thomson
“in recognition of the great merits of his theoretical and experimental investigations on the conduction of electricity by gases”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1906
Henri Moissan
“in recognition of the great services rendered by him in his investigation and isolation of the element fluorine, and for the adoption in the service of science of the electric furnace called after him”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1906
Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramón y Cajal
“in recognition of their work on the structure of the nervous system”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1906
Giosuè Carducci
“not only in consideration of his deep learning and critical research, but above all as a tribute to the creative energy, freshness of style, and lyrical force which characterize his poetic masterpieces”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1906
Theodore Roosevelt
“for his role in bringing to an end the bloody war recently waged between two of the world's great powers, Japan and Russia”
1905
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1905
Philipp Lenard
“for his work on cathode rays”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1905
Adolf von Baeyer
“in recognition of his services in the advancement of organic chemistry and the chemical industry, through his work on organic dyes and hydroaromatic compounds”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1905
Robert Koch
“for his investigations and discoveries in relation to tuberculosis”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1905
Henryk Sienkiewicz
“because of his outstanding merits as an epic writer”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1905
Bertha von Suttner
“for her audacity to oppose the horrors of war”
1904
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1904
Lord Rayleigh
“for his investigations of the densities of the most important gases and for his discovery of argon in connection with these studies”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1904
Sir William Ramsay
“in recognition of his services in the discovery of the inert gaseous elements in air, and his determination of their place in the periodic system”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1904
Ivan Pavlov
“in recognition of his work on the physiology of digestion, through which knowledge on vital aspects of the subject has been transformed and enlarged”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1904
Frédéric Mistral
“in recognition of the fresh originality and true inspiration of his poetic production, which faithfully reflects the natural scenery and native spirit of his people, and, in addition, his significant work as a Provençal philologist”
José Echegaray
“in recognition of the numerous and brilliant compositions which, in an individual and original manner, have revived the great traditions of the Spanish drama”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1904
Institute of International Law
“for its striving in public law to develop peaceful ties between nations and to make the laws of war more humane”
1903
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1903
Henri Becquerel
“in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered by his discovery of spontaneous radioactivity”
Pierre Curie and Marie Curie
“in recognition of the extraordinary services they have rendered by their joint researches on the radiation phenomena discovered by Professor Henri Becquerel”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1903
Svante Arrhenius
“in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered to the advancement of chemistry by his electrolytic theory of dissociation”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1903
Niels Ryberg Finsen
“in recognition of his contribution to the treatment of diseases, especially lupus vulgaris, with concentrated light radiation, whereby he has opened a new avenue for medical science”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1903
Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson
“as a tribute to his noble, magnificent and versatile poetry, which has always been distinguished by both the freshness of its inspiration and the rare purity of its spirit”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1903
Randal Cremer
“for his longstanding and devoted effort in favour of the ideas of peace and arbitration”
1902
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1902
Hendrik A. Lorentz and Pieter Zeeman
“in recognition of the extraordinary service they rendered by their researches into the influence of magnetism upon radiation phenomena”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1902
Emil Fischer
“in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered by his work on sugar and purine syntheses”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1902
Ronald Ross
“for his work on malaria, by which he has shown how it enters the organism and thereby has laid the foundation for successful research on this disease and methods of combating it”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1902
Theodor Mommsen
“the greatest living master of the art of historical writing, with special reference to his monumental work, A history of Rome”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1902
Élie Ducommun
“for his untiring and skilful directorship of the Bern Peace Bureau”
Albert Gobat
“for his eminently practical administration of the Inter-Parliamentary Union”
1901
The Nobel Prize in Physics 1901
Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen
“in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered by the discovery of the remarkable rays subsequently named after him”
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1901
Jacobus H. van 't Hoff
“in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered by the discovery of the laws of chemical dynamics and osmotic pressure in solutions”
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 1901
Emil von Behring
“for his work on serum therapy, especially its application against diphtheria, by which he has opened a new road in the domain of medical science and thereby placed in the hands of the physician a victorious weapon against illness and deaths”
The Nobel Prize in Literature 1901
Sully Prudhomme
“in special recognition of his poetic composition, which gives evidence of lofty idealism, artistic perfection and a rare combination of the qualities of both heart and intellect”
The Nobel Peace Prize 1901
Henry Dunant
“for his humanitarian efforts to help wounded soldiers and create international understanding”
Frédéric Passy
“for his lifelong work for international peace conferences, diplomacy and arbitration”


To cite this section
MLA style: All Nobel Prizes. NobelPrize.org. Nobel Prize Outreach 2025. Mon. 9 Jun 2025. <https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/lists/all-nobel-prizes>
